<wmtext>
+ 
To the well-known services of Miss Nightingale in the East ainong 
our brave and suffering men, must be added another claim to the 
recognition of the country, and the gratitude of the soldier, in the 
clear and logical evidence she has placed before the Commission of 
Inquiry into the sanitary condition of the army-an inquiry which 
, 
in the horrible revelations it has brought to light, is engrossing 
much of the public attention, and which, showing as it does the 
removable nature of the causes decimating our home army, will, it 
is to be hoped, lead to that immediate and radical reform, which 
, 
though contrary to the Circumlocution Institutions and habits of the 
country, is here so imperatively called for as to warrant and demand 
the wholesome establishment of a precedent. The Blue Book in 
which we find "answers to written questions addressed to Miss 
Nightingale by the Commissioners," while it furnishes loathsome 
and sickening details of the causes of the high rate of mortality in 
the army, clearly demonstrates them all, with the one exception 
of intemperate and debauched habits, as arising from preventible 
causes, viz. crowded sleeping accommodation at night, producing so 
fetid an atmosphere, that a person entering from out of doors cannot 
breathe the polluted air till the window has been opened ; many 
hours out of the twenty-four wholly unoccupied, in which, a prey to 
that scourge of civilized humanity, ennui, the more active and 
energetic the man the more dissipated and debauched becomes the soldier; 
subjected to a diet of which fresh boiled beef from one year&equo;s end to 
the otherduring the whole twenty-one years of service, is the staple 
, , 
till the strongest stomach revolts from the very sight of it; exposed 
in his barracks to defective ventilation and drainage, the details of 
which are too offensive to place before the general reader; instead of 
wondering that the ordinary mortality in the army almost equals 
the extraordinary mortality among civilians in seasons of cholera 
and feverit is rather matter for surprise, that, systematically 
, 
exposed to influences known as the most deadly to which human 
vol. i. . a 
beings can be subjected, our soldiers should present the fine 
physical appearance they do. limb We from pick the strongest, healthiest and , 
menmen sound in wind and , among our agricultural 
artisan , population, spend time, money, and science in manufacturing 
the raw clodhopper and slouching mechanic into the trim, 
wellknit going , firm on we -stepp hand ing him soldi over er, and in his while hours this of costl rest y and transformation leisure to the is 
insidious attacks of preventible disease, and the no less insidious 
and more deadly temptations of idleness and ennui. 
siall 
The defective organization of the English army was as gny 
individual proved in the They Crimea were , as Eng the lish heroic men and courage not Eng and lish devotion soldiers of who the 
. 
saved our honour in the East. The French had an army, we had 
none onlbands of heroic menwho, whether led through 
ignorance ; or mistak y e to charge the enemy , in face of certain death, or 
ordered out to starve and rot in the trenches, inadeqxiately fed and 
honour clothed, of gav that e their country lives whose unquestioning defective ; content military to organization die for the , 
in having the fields exposed of the them East to death victims and not disease so much at home to the , offered chances them of war up , 
, , 
as to the evils of a pretentious and rotten system. 
The public hasnot forgotten the wholesale sacrifice of life in the 
. 
Crimea to the requirements of an absurd and defective official routine, 
which no man had the heart or the courage to break through, 
hundreds though he for saw want before of those his eyes very our things gallant known fellows to be perishing at hand, and by 
dited only not officer avail distant able in it the mi absenc ht be e miles of a written , in the order performance from the of accre one - 
g 
of his multifarious , duties. Neither has the public forgotten the 
disorder which prevailed in the hospitals, when Florence Nightingale 
and her band of nurses and ladies started for Constantinople in the 
autumn of 1854. 
Never was the presence of woman more needed, never did it 
ness carry and with gentleness it more blessing so characteristic and healing of woman . With , united that union to skill of firm and 
experience acquired in long years of study and observation,* Miss 
* At the commencement of call Miss the Nig attention htingale of &equo;s evidence we femal find readers the following to the questions 
excel proof and " ans Have in more wers an you y of . department , the We for necessity several especiall , or years y there to be , devoted of is use for in long atten our and ti generation on our systematic to the young . organization training e , of if civil we would and m military , hope as one to 
itals 
hos" " " p What Yes I have , V for British visited thirteen and all years t forei he hosp .g " n hosp itals t ital in hos s London have you , in Dublin visited land , and ?" all Edinburg the hosp h, itals many in count Paris y hos and 
italssome of the naval and miliary pitals Eng; , 
werth studied p,on with the the Rhine * sceurs , wh de ere la I charite was twice ;* the in institution training as of a Protestant nurse; the Deaconesses hospitals at at Kaisers Berlin, - 
the and war many , hosp others itals in of Germany the French ; at and Lyons Sardinians , Rome, ." Alexandria, Constantinople, Brussels; also 
Nightingale proceeded immediately to organise and arrange, 
stepingit is saidmore than once over those routine obstacles which 
had p p , roved insurmoun , table to routine men, til&rsqb; order grew out of 
disorder, and gradually, cleanliness, comfort, and health, took the 
place of those frightful scenes which awaited her first arrival. 
" We had," says Miss Nightingale"in the first seven months of 
, 
the Crimean campaign, a mortality among the troops at the rate of 
60 per cent, per annum, from disease alone,-a rate of mortality 
which exceeds that of the great plague in the population of London, 
and a higher ratio than the mortality in cholera to the attacks; that 
is to say, that there died out of the army in the Crimea an annual 
rate greater than ordinarily die in time of pestilence out of sick. 
We had, during the last six months of the war, a mortality among 
our sick not much more than that among our healthy Gruards at home 
and a mortality among our troops in the last five months two-thirds only of , 
what it is among our troops at home" 
Thus, in the face of extraordinary causes of sickness, and under 
conditions of exposure and climate which would naturally be 
supposed less favourable to the health of the soldier than the conditions 
to which he is exposed at home, we have, upon undoubted testimony, 
" a mortality a?nong the sick not much more than that among our healthy 
Guards at home, and a mortality among our troops in the last ^ve 
months two-thirds only of what it is among our troops at home." 
Again we find:-" At homethe guards and infantry of the line 
, 
suffer more from consumption and chest diseases than men in civil 
life, at the same ages, from all diseases put together, 
" The Guards suffer twice as much from fever-more from fever 
in some barracks than in othersand more from epidemics in 
, 
epidemic years than civil life. There is no a priori reason for this." 
Such evidence as this needs no comment, nor is testimony 
wanting from officers of long standing as to the known defective sanitary 
condition of the army at homebut it was reserved for a civilian 
, , 
Mr. Sydney Herbert, to move inquiry into the matter. Now what 
does this testimony on the part of these officers prove ?-Either, 
that they were men whose moral courage was unequal to the moral 
responsibilities which rested upon them, or that, like the soldiers 
whose health and lives were at stake, they were themselves the 
victimsin another formof a false system which admitted of no 
, , 
appeal. 
In the course of Miss Nightingale&equo;s evidenceas to the difficulties 
, 
experienced in obtaining food, clothing, bedding, medical comforts, 
extra diets, &amp;cthe question is put to her :- 
, 
" What appeared to be the cause of such difficulties ? " 
Now note the reply :- 
" (3) The fear of being called a &equo;troublesome fellow/ which, to 
niy positive knowledgedeterred medical officers from making 
, 
repeated requisitions for articles which they knew to be necessary 
G 2 
for •would their injure men, their or for prospects repairs, . because This will they be feared denied, but that it such is true conduc for all t 
that We :&equo; need not to the or the Crimea for corroboration of the 
go arony 
fact our large of public metropolitan duty being "workhouses sacrificed , toa privat medical e selfishness officer, to . whom In one the of 
unfor patient tunate with paupers medicine are , on " the farmed ground out, that " recen drugs tly refused " food would do to Wh no supp good ly a t ; 
that all she -wanted was wine and nourishing . " y no 
then the answer ," said the " if poor I order sufferer wine , for "order my patient the wine s it ? will " " be Because thought ," that was 
I want to save , my drugs, and I shall run the chance of losing the 
appointment Let view ." social organization as we willon the broad stage of 
us , 
the whole civilized world, or in detail, in the hospital and the 
bl workhouse emsinsurmoun , everywhere table difficulties shall we , behol ineradicable d apparentl incongruities y insoluble . pro Is 
this the , irrevocable ordination of Providence, or do these problems 
bu in t great of part the arise two from great man forces setting she has his created face against ? Strange nature , that , using the 
one 
necessi the government ty for the of mal the e famil and femal y, bu e t i element gnored in should the government be recognised of the in 
rich and 
worldthat universal and comprehensive family, embracing 
p that oor, nothing sick , and short health of y, the learned united and forces ignoran of t all , elemen humanity ts so can opposed hope , 
. 
Man to All win that alone its the confidence has male organised intellect , reach i and t can s.sym organised suggest pathies, has , or and allevia been failed broug te its and h sufferings t to failed bear . . 
directl Let . America y and wi indirec th her tly millions upon civilization of slaves, , answer and wi ; th let what our dead result on ? 
the . shores of , the Crimea answer; let - the recent tragedies in our 
Indian possessions tell their tale; and, as tt these and far-off th echoes t reach die 
us away from , letour us workhouses listen to the , and voices prisons of lamen , anda facio tories n , twoe hat surge a ever 
u stree pwards ts of from our cities the p . inched God has homes created of two our artisans, man from uses the crowded but one. 
powers ; 
Where political economy has failed, the economy of nature may 
gale succeed ar . e si Elizabeth gnal inst Fry ances , Caroline of what C t hishol he in m troduc , and tion Florence of the Ni fema ghtin le 
f elemen ertilised , t may bthe achieve id . in Let tuitiv the e slow perceptions , logical of int the ellect woman of the ;man let the be 
rap 
calculating ymale brain be tempered by the warm emotional faculties 
of the female; let his physical courage be refined characterizes and inspired social by 
her oraniza moral tion courage ma ,erc and hanc the e sterility ive lace which to fruitfulness and our plenty 
unknown g to the y dream p of the g Utopian p . 
lished 
What these noble self-sacrificing women have accompon a 
sinall scale, and in the face of obstacles and difficulties innumerable, 
is but an earnest of what woman will easily and naturally achieve, 
as legitimate spheres of action open before her in the world&equo;s growing 
conviction of the need of the female element for its highest 
organization and administration. "Male and femalecreated he them" is 
, , 
true of the intellect and soul, no less * than of the physical frame. 
Throw open all artssciences, professions, and trades to woman, it 
, 
will be found that men and women can no more be rivals in the 
moral, intellectual, and spiritual life, than they can be rivals in the 
material and physical life. Nature herself has fixed the limit in 
quality and not in degree, and if man, intellectually and morally, 
hold the sledge-hammer and mace which can forge and weld the 
surface, woman grasps the keen and subtle blade which can pierce 
to the innermost heart of all things. 
Great and lamentable as the disasters were in the Crimea from 
defective organization, and from stupid, if not criminal, adherence to 
routine, the extraordinary emergencies of the case furnish, to some 
extent, extraordinary excuses. This inquiry, however, into the 
sanitary condition of the army shows a state of things at home for 
which there is not only no shadow of excuse, but which reflects 
upon the probity, intelligence, and humanity of every officer in the 
service. Among the admirably prepared tables of mortality put in 
by Miss Nightingale, there is one of such vast and permanent 
importance, that we give it at length, with her observations thereon:- 
" Belative Mortality of the Army at Home, and of the English 
Male Population, at corresponding Ages :- 
Ages. Death to 1000 s Annuall living y . 
^ on - 9 ^ K / Englishmen 8*4* 
\ English soldiers 17-0 
* ok °-* qau \ i Eng Eng lish lishmen soldiers 18 9 - * 3 2 
o^ ok f Englishmen 10*2 
\ English soldiers 18*4 
ok An j Englishmen 11*6 
°°-&equo;*u \ English soldiers 19-2f 
That is to say, that, if the army were as healthy as the population 
from which they are drawn, they would die at one half the rate 
they die at now, 
tions * . t. e. Eight four-tenths; the, decimal fractions entering into all extended 
calculafrom f That the Report this hi itself gh rat shows e of m :- ortality is not indigenous to an army, the following extract 
the " onl It y has army been in stated which to the us, mortalit as a fact y so does singular not much that , if it at deserves all, exceed fur that ther of inquiry the popula , that 
tion fj om which it is drawn, so far as the latter can be ascertained, is the native army in 
I tri ndia cts , in whose rates are slightly lower than those of the native civil population of those 
diswhich the rates of mortality are known." 
"The army are picked lives, and the inferior lives are 
thusthrown 44 The back health among of the the mass is of continuall the population y kept . up by an influx of 
fresh liveswhile those army which have been used up in the service are 
also thrown , back into the general population, and give a very high 
the mortality " The army general . itself population (whether in includes recruitin , besides g or those invalidin thus g) rejected , vagrants by , 
paupers habits we , intemperate have little or persons no control , the . dregs of the race, over whose 
nearlall that 
" The food the , sanitary clothing state , lodg of ing the , emp soldier loyment are , absolutel and y under y our 
concerns 
control " Yet , and with may all be this regulated the mortality to the minutest of the army particular , from . which the 
to injured which , lives the are injured subtracted lives , are , is added double ." that throw of the some whole liht populatio on this n, 
The evidence perhaps up; 
following may g 
formidabl " I am e bound state of to things say tliat :- the military ton hospitals almost I have much seen in in 
want Eng itals land of " be certain , Portsmouth it observed sanitary , Chatham wo under rks as the , Bromp Scutari especial ,," , superintendence This are of " military as of hos the 
medical p, staff. , 
touch Ni It ghtingale is upon impossible the . Her subjects , within objections so the full medical limits y to and the abl of system officers this y entered article of their reg upon imental , obstacles to do "b y more hosp Florenc to itals than the e , 
progress to clear their and effect and forcible upon diffusion the manner army of medical which shows science, a , are comp presente lete mastery d in that of 
struck the subject with . the Indeed wide , no grasp one of can fac read ts and this the evidence logical w deductions ithout being it 
evinces With . regard to female nurses in military hosp orderlies itals, Miss observes 
Nightingale It , having has been shown proved the utter by experience inefficiency th of at " the presence ," of female :- 
to nurses " what in class large of wards nurses renders should be disci emp plin loyed e extremel in military y easy hosp . * itals * * , my As 
¦ own women opinion of the is efficiency humbly , responsibilit but entirel y y , and against character employ of ing head any nurses but 
in Miss civil Ni hosp htingale itals." &equo;s decided opinion upon this head is corroborated 
g 
by chapter the testimony of &equo; Eastern of another Hospitals lady and volunteer English to Nurses the East &equo; . we In find the last the 
and in itals 
is and result at in home sufferings this of ; personal direction experience of war experience , not , proving but onl in y , alleviation as both the provision great in the need of for East the of the , suffering woman occasional &equo; our s that work hosp horrors is th with ere 
, 
us always in the sick and poor. " Attention has been drawn towards 
the class of women whose task it is to nurse the sick of England. 
These pages will in some degree show how unfitted they are for that 
responsible office; for though a military hospital was the worst 
imaginable position in which to place them, yet those who were 
unable to resist its temptations are certainly unfitted for their present 
occupation. * * * It is not for military hospitals alone that we want 
better nurses. * *_ * Many who will read these pages have perhaps 
never passed within hospital walls; many more, if they have done so, 
have paid their visit at appointed times "when all looked its best. 
But others as well as myself have learnt our experience of hospital 
work from more authentic sources. We have lived in hospital 
wards, going there for the purpose of preparing ourselves-first, to 
undertake the nursing of the poor at home, and again when about to 
proceed to the East. We placed ourselves under the hospital nurses, 
receiving our instruction from them, and, thus being possessed of no 
authority over them, were admitted behind the scenes of hospital 
life ; and what we saw there-of disobedience to medical orders and 
cruelty to patients-would fill pages, and make those who read them 
shudder! Shudder, as we often have done when we saw some little 
innocent child, "who from some terrible accident had been brought 
into the hospital, exposed to that atmosphere of evil. More evil was 
heard in one hour in a &lsqb;London hospital than would meet one&equo;s ears 
during months passed in a military one." 
A sad picture this, but one whose truth is not to be doubted. 
Valuable as are the services hitherto rendered by Miss 
Nightingale, she has yet a crowning one to add in the organization and 
establishment of a training school for nurses. May we not hope 
that the time is at hand, when, recruited in health and strength, she 
will avail herself of the means placed at her disposal by her grateful 
countrymen and women, and perpetuate her deeds of loving 
kindness and mercy by founding a new order of true Sisters of Charity, 
who, for love of God in man and man in God, for the high uses of 
humanity, will emulate the beneficent works of that order 
established by St. Vincent de Paul in 1660, of whom Voltaire exclaimed, 
thatif anything could make him believe in Christianity, it would 
be such , deeds as those wrought by the Sceurs de la Charite. 
M. M. H. 
</wmtext>

