<wmtext>
To the Editors of the English Woman&equo;s Journal. 
My deab Madam, Paris, Feb. 14th, 1858. 
I regret tliat circumstances should have compelled nie so 
long to postpone the preparation .of the sketch of the history of my 
sisters-Dr. Elizabeth Black well, the first woman -who ever took a 
medical degree, and Dr. Emily Blackwell, -who has followed in her 
steps--which I have been so often urged by yourself and other 
friends to bring, more clearly than has yet been done, before the 
notice of our countrywomen ; but your last moving appeal upon 
this subject has just reached me, and shall be responded to without 
farther delay. 
But, before entering upon this task, let me state, distinctly, that 
if I have consented to furnish you with the outline of Dr. Elizabeth&equo;s 
biography, so frequently asked for by those who ar© desirous of 
knowing who she is, how she came to adopt the medical profession, 
how she obtained her degree, and what has been the result of her 
practice as a physician for women and children-questions naturally 
prompted by the imperfect accounts which have appeared from 
time to time in the public prints, but the reply to which 
necessitates allusion to family and personal details not usually, and under 
ordinary circumstances, brought before the public in the life-time 
of the parties concerned-I have done so because I share the 
conviction, so often expressed to me by others, that a knowledge of the 
facts narrated in the rapid sketch I am about to give you is 
essential to a correct appreciation of my sister&equo;s course, as showing that 
the aim which she has proposed to herself, and which she has 
accomplished under circumstances of more than ordinary difficulty, 
has been suggested by no love of eccentricity, no craving after 
notoriety, but has grown naturally out of the experiences of her life, 
acting upon a character peculiarly adapted to the work to which 
she has thus been led to devote herself, from an unwavering 
conviction of duty, and an earnest desire to be useful to her sex and to her 
kind. 
And, in the first place, let me correct the very general 
misapprehension as to their nationality, to which the fact that my sisters 
have obtained their medical diplomas in the United States, and are 
now practising as physicians in that country, appears to have given 
rise in England. 
As you are already aware, the numerous family to which they 
"belong-now scattered over three of the four quarters of the globe 
-are natives of Bristol, in which city their father, the late Mr. 
Sainuel Blackwell, "was extensively engaged for nearly twenty years 
as a sugar-refinerand where lie was well known for his active and 
liberal exertions in , the various religious and benevolent enterprises 
of the day, and for his energetic support of all measures of local and 
general reform. 
Their parents preferring the system of home-instruction to that 
of schools, the education of the children was conducted principally 
with the aid of governesses and masters. Their winters were spent 
in town, their summers at the sea-side. Long walks in all weathers 
formed part of every day&equo;s avocations; an amount of romping going 
on between lesson-hours that would have been sufficiently trying to 
any mother of less healthy, and less genial temper, than theirs. 
Birthdays "were celebrated with an amount of zeal in direct 
proportion with the frequency of their recurrence; and Christmas and 
New Year&equo;s Days with an observance worthy of the olden time. 
Small, of fair complexion, with clear bluish-gray eyes, light hair 
remarkably soft and fine, beautiful hands, and a very sweet voice, 
and, in her childhood, so habitually reserved and silent, that her 
father, with whom she was an especial favourite, had given her the 
name of " Little Shy" nothing in her appearance or manner 
indi-, 
cated the directness and tenacity of purpose, and the unusual 
physical strengthwhich distinguished the subject of this notice from 
, 
her earliest years, and of which many characteristic examples 
might be cited. For instance: when she was between four and 
five years old, her father having occasion to visit Dublin, the whole 
family went down to the Hotwells to see him off; Elizabeth, 
under the impression that she was rendering him an important 
service, insisted on holding his valise on her lap all the way, and 
only giving it up on reaching the basin where the steamer was 
lying. As the vessel moved slowly down the river, the children 
ran on for some time along the bank, waving their handkerchiefs; 
but whenquickening her speedshe began to leave the party 
, , 
behind, it was proposed to turn back and go home. Elizabeth, "who 
had set her heart on going to Ireland with her father, and had been 
much disappointed on finding that she could not be allowed to do 
so, took no heed of this proposition, but -walked steadily on, 
quickening her pace as the steamer quickened hers. No persuasion could 
induce her to turn back. She said nothing in reply to the chorus of 
remonstrances addressed to her; and had evidently made up her 
mindas she could not go with her father in the steamerto 
accompany , him to Ireland on foot. At last it was suggested to , her that 
her father had only gone in the steamer because, Ireland being an 
island, with water all round it, people could not go thither in any 
other way; and thateven if she should walk on to the very end of 
, 
the land, she could not walk across the water, but would be obliged 
to coine back for want of a boat. As this view of the case became 
clear to her, she suddenly stopped, turned round with a countenance 
expressive of the utmost disappointment and indignation, and 
went home in- high dudgeon with Necessity, without speaking a 
word. 
When still very young, the Essay on Decision of Character, by the 
Rev. John Foster-whose well-known plaid cloak was often seen 
at her father&equo;s fire-side-was a great favourite with her. Queen 
Elizabeth&equo;s undaunted spirit, the fearless grace of the Huntress 
Dianaandthe healthy self-dependence and elasticity of fibre of the 
vigorou , s heroines . of old northern story, occupied a high place in her 
admiration. 
her 
At a somewhat later period, her superior strength rendering 
more than a match for the other members of her family, she would 
sometimes gain a contested point by inflicting a compulsory 
promenade on the oposing twhom she would take up in her 
arms and useless , and carr entreaties y about p for the release par house y, , un the til latter , wearied was ou fain t with to cap lau itula ghter te 
, 
on her own terms. On one occasion, a gentleman and his wife, who 
were on intimate terms with the familwere spending the evening 
at their housewhenthe conversation y, happening to turn on the 
, , 
inferior muscular power of women as compared with men, Mr. X. 
-a small man, and a little inclined to overrate his physical strength 
the -asser female ted - , - no a t proposition merely that not the to male be gainsaid sex in general -but that is st the ronger weakest than 
man, if he put forth his full strength, would be found to be stronger 
than the strongest woman. 
"That is certainly a mistake," remarked her brothers, "for 
sE t lizabe reth th wi , when th us she is m chooses ore than toa give mathe ch rself for ei the ther trouble of us of at measuring wrestling 
ng, 
or"at She lifti could ng, and notcan lift carr me y! us noa woman bout wit livin h perfect g could ease lift ." me against 
my will!" exclaimed Mr. X., with slightly contemptuous 
incredulity. " Try itMiss Elizabeth !" he continuedturning towards 
herand settling , himself resolutely in his seat, wit , h his feet pressed 
firm , lon the floor"do your utmost; I defy you to move me out 
y ; 
of this chair!" 
Thus challenged, Elizabeth walked slowly across the room, lifted 
Mr. X. from his chair, seated him on her left arm, and holding him 
firmly with the other, in spite of his desperat with e effor the ts to utmost get himself deli 
freewalked three times round the parlour - 
beration , , and quietly remarked, as she replaced him in his chair 
amidst an outburst of irrepressible merriment, to which the two 
visitors contributed their full share, "You see, Mr. X., that some 
women In 1832 are Mr quite Bl as ack strong well was as some so men heavy !" a loser by the failure of 
. 
several commercial houses with which he was connected, that he 
determined to wind up his affairs in Bristol, and to remove with his 
family to the United States, which offered, at that period, a very 
promising field for the sugar-trade. Such, however, was the esteem 
in which he was held bhis fellow-townsmenthat a number of the 
most influential of the y Bristol merchants met , in the Exchange, and 
addressed to him a letterin whichafter expressing their conviction 
that his intended removal , to America , -would be a public loss to the 
town and the countrythey begged him to re-consider his decision, 
, 
and stated that, if this decision had been prompted, as they 
presumed it to have beenby embarrassment resulting from the recent 
insolvency of houses known , to be largely indebted to him, they were 
prepared to place at his disposal, for any number of years, and at a 
merely nominal interest, any amount of capital he might require for 
the ing on of his establishment. This offermost delicately 
made carry and honourable alike to those from whom it emanated , and to 
him to , whom it was addressed, though fully appreciated , by the 
latter, was declined; and in August of the same year, Mr. Blackwell, 
¦with his wife and family, two sisters, a governess, and a couple o&pound; 
servants, sailed for New York. Of his habitual kindness and 
generosity his last act on leaving England may serve as an 
illustration. Just as the ship in which he had embarked with his family 
was heaving her anchorsit was discovered that two very 
decentlooking young women, who , had taken places as steerage passengers, 
were unable to for them; and the Captain, highly incensed at 
what he regarded pay as a dishonest attempt on their part, had ordered 
them on deck, and -was sending them ashore with their boxes and the 
provisions they had prepared for the voyage. It appeared that they 
were dressmakers, without friends or advisers ; they had conceived 
an exaggerated idea of the possibilities of the New World, and, 
imagining that if they could only get themselves on board they 
would be sure of their passage, they had contrived to scrape together 
h to purchase provisions for the voyage, and had installed 
themselves enoug in the quarters allotted to them, intending to pay for 
their passage out of the fortune they counted on making in New 
York. They had spent their last penny in making these 
preparationsand their despair-when ordered ashoremay be imagined. 
Touched , by their distress , , and finding that their , error appeared to 
have proceeded from sheer simplicityand not from any dishonest 
intentionMr. Blackwell paid their , passage on the spot. Such 
things were , of constant occurrence with him. 
On reaching New York, Mr. Blackwell established a Sugar 
Refinery in that city, and was for some years exceedingly successful * 
Shortly after his arrival there he had received copies ofu 
Besolutions " expressive of regret at the loss of his services, and good 
wishes for his future career, which had been passed at the annual 
meetings of the various benevolent societies of Bristol, of which he 
had been so prominent a member; and notwithstanding the almost 
incessant demands of a very extensive business upon his time, he 
took an active part in the organization of the American Anti-Slavery 
Society, and gave his aid to other reformatory enterprises which were 
set on foot at that time in the United States. 
This period of prosperity was interrupted by the commercial 
but crisis he of found 1837- himself 8 ; he was once ab more le to avoid bthe bankruptcy failure of nearl in his y every own person house , 
y 
with which he was connected , deprived of almost all that he 
, 
possessed A return . to England was now greatly desired left by his the native elder 
lan members d with of the the determination family, but of their accumul father ating , having a certain amount of 
property for his childrenrefused to accede to their wish until he 
should have accomplished , this purpose; but he promised that, when 
this should be done, the question of returning to England should be 
period put offering majo to rit , the y to . great vote Meantime the , advantages and west decided , of as the no for , sugar in Alleg the a famil refinery hany introduction y- mountains council was in , b of existence y , the and this voice Cincinnati branch , at of that the of 
manufactureMr. Blackwell now left New York, and removed with 
, 
his familto that city. But the anxiety caused by this second 
overthrow of y his affairs, exercised an unfavourable effect on a constitution 
which-though very robust up to the period of his leaving England 
-had been already impaired by the unhealthy conditions of the 
American climate. The summer of 1838 was unusually hot; and 
rendered the change, from the comparatively bracing air of the 
coast to the stifling inland atmosphere of Ohio, doubly trying to 
English constitutions. Soon after his arrival in Cincinnati, and 
while engaged in the establishment of a sugar refinery with the aid 
of the resources still at his command, he was attacked by fever, and 
diedafter a few days&equo; illnessin the forty-sixth year of his age, and 
within , six years of his leaving , England. Possessed of great and 
varied information, a student, poet, and philanthropist in the midst 
of almost incessant occupation, most upright, generous, and kind in 
all the relations of lifehis memory will ever live in the affectionate 
, 
veneration of those who knew him. 
The family thus plunged in the deepest affliction, in a foreign 
land, and in a city where they had just arrived as strangers, were 
now utterly penniless ; for all the available means that had remained 
to their father after the closing of his establishment in New York, had 
been employed by him in making arrangements for establishing a sugar 
refinery in this new locality; and although various amounts, some of 
them largewere still due to his estate from several business firms, 
none of these , could ever be recovered, many of the parties by whom 
they were due becoming bankrupt, and others declining to discharge 
obligations which the confusion consequent on so sudden a death, 
and the inexperience of the claimantsenabled them to elude. An 
, 
important commercial house on which their father had a large claim, 
and on which he had drawn orders which had been employed by 
him. in various recent payments, became bankrupt before these 
orders maturedand they were returnedprotesteda few days after 
his death; and , an agent in New York, with , whom , the greater part 
of their household furniture had been left for sale on their removal 
from that city, sold the furniture and pocketed the proceeds. Bent 
was due for the dwelling-house occupied by the family, and for the 
premises partly fitted up as a refinery ; the protested notes were to 
be made good; doctor&equo;s and undertaker&equo;s bills were to be paid (their 
aunts had also fallen victims to the climate, and had died within a 
few weeks of their father&equo;s decease) ; and the daily expenses of the 
household were to be provided for; demands that were all 
subsequentldischarged to the very last farthing. 
thro The wn y group on their of nine own , exertions who, with , consisted their mother of three , were elder thus daug suddenl hters y , 
of whom Dr. Elizabeth, then in her eighteenth year, was the youngest; 
two brothers, who were now obliged to leave their studies and begin 
the world as clerks in mercantile houses; and four younger children, 
of whom Dr. Emily was the eldestand whose support, with that of 
their motherdevolved at that time , upon the three elder sisters. 
The latter , since the return of their governess to England, had 
been accustomed , to take turns in carrying on the tuition of the 
other children; and they immediately opened a boarding-school for 
young ladies, as the only means of keeping the family circle 
unbroken while completing the education of its younger members. 
Their position excited much sympathy; their school was rapidly 
filled; and they gradually surmounted the difficulties which had 
surrounded them. 
But the excessive fatigue inseparable from the conscientious 
discharge of the teacher&equo;s duty-especially in a country -where the 
ils were often idle and turbulent to a degree that would seem 
incredibl pup e in England-the confinement and wearisorneness of school 
routineand the smallness of the remuneration which the teacher 
receives , in return for an amount of labour and self-denial often 
much greater than that by which men attain to wealth and position 
in business and in the learned professions, added to the fact that 
no other mode of loyment than that of teaching seemed to be 
accessible to femal emp e effortprompted the sisters to frequent 
cogitation upon the narrowness , of the sphere within which women 
compelled to earn their own living and that of others dependent 
upon them, are restricted, suggested questionings of the justice and 
propriety of this restriction, and led them to frequent speculation as 
to the possibility of widening the scope of women&equo;s employments 
by admission into the careers hitherto open only to men. They 
felt not onlthatthrown as they had been on their own resources, 
their possibilities y , of success would have been infinitely greater had 
had they training been men and instead opportunity of women been , within but also their that rea , even ch, they as women would , 
kav&pound; been quite as competent to carry on a mercantile concern, 
conduct a lawsuitor practise tlie healing artas the greater 
number of men whom , they saw engaged in those , avocations; and 
they often discussed the possibility of adopting some of those 
pursuits as an avenue to fortune for themselves and for others of their 
sex who should be minded to follow their example. As their 
interest in the great social questions of the day gradually deepened, 
the propriety and necessity of enlarging in some way the sphere of 
women&equo;s activity became more and more evident to them; the 
medical profession appearing to them as one in which women-the 
mothers, nurses, and first teachers of the human race-were 
especially qualified by nature to take a useful part, and, consequently, 
as the one in which some innovation might be most hopefully 
attempted. But these desultory disquisitions were far from 
assuming any practical form; the idea had reached the stage of 
irationbut made no progress towards any practical result. 
asp, 
In 1844, the younger branches of the family having reached an 
at which they •were able to take care of themselves, the school 
was age given up, and the family dispersed. Some of its members 
returned to England; others remained in America, engaged in 
various avocations. 
Meantimea conviction of the important results that would follow 
a wider practical , culture, and the opening of a larger sphere, for 
womenand a determination to devote her life to the 
accomplishment of , this end by the adoption of the medical profession, had 
been taking absorbing possession of Elizabeth&equo;s mind. Being now 
released from the family responsibilities in which she had so long 
borne her share, she assumed the charge of a large country-school, 
in the state of Kentucky, at a handsome salary, which she 
carefullhoarded with a view to the carrying out of the project that 
was y gradually shaping itself in her mind, and employing every 
leisure moment in the study of all the medical and anatomical books 
within her reach. 
More than one woman was already in the field, in different parts 
of the United States, as a self-constituted " doctor;" but none of 
them had ever attempted to legitimate the assumption of the 
physician&equo;s office for herself, and for her sex, by the achievement of a 
sound and regular medical education and the conquest of an 
orthodox diploma. That such an attempt on her part would inevitably 
excite oppositionboth in the ranks of the medical profession and 
, 
in society at large, she was fully aware; but she was none the less 
resolved to make this attempt, convinced that success must 
ultimately crown the effort. Endowed by nature, as has been already 
shownwith unusual energy and concentration of purpose, perfectly 
, 
unselfish, and with a great amount of practical sagacity and latent 
enthusiasm combined with remarkable self-command and the utmost 
quietness of manner, she was peculiarly fitted to be the pioneer in 
the difficult enterprise she had determined to undertake. 
It was not, however, until the following year that she announced 
to her familthe decision at which she had arrived. Compelled, 
necessary by-want of to y fortune the prosecution , to accumulate of her b contemp y her own lated labour medical the studies funds , 
she now accepted the situation of music-teacher, at a higher salary, 
in a large and fashionable boarding-school in Charleston (South 
Carolina) conducted by the Rev. Dr. J. Dickson. 
Besides her attainments in music and drawing, she had already 
acquired the French and German languages. She now commenced 
education the study of while Latin dili , gentl as an pursuin indispensabl g the e systematic preliminary medical to a medical reading 
on which , she had entered y . Although it was only in the intervals 
of her avocations as a music-teacher that she could carry on these 
preparatory studies, they advanced more rapidly and successfully 
than she had anticipated; for one of the most eminent physicians 
of that city, Dr. S» H. Dickson, brother of the principal of the 
school in which she was engaged, and subsequently Professor of 
Medicine in the University of New York, took great interest in her 
lanssuperintended her medical readingadmitted her among his 
p office- , studentsand afforded her valuable facilities , for the 
prosecu-, 
tion of her studies. 
In May, 1847, after three years of incessant application, during 
which the closest study had occupied every moment not engaged in 
teaching, she left Charleston, and went to Philadelphia, where she 
endeavoured to obtain admittance to the medical schools, but 
without success. The physicians at their head were either shocked or 
angry at her request, and the doors of all those schools were closed 
against so unprecedented an application; and finding it impossible 
to avail herself of the facilities provided for students of the other 
sexshe now entered upon a course of private anatomical study and 
dissection , with Professor Allenand of midwifery with Dr. 
Warrington of Philadelphia. But althoug , h she could undoubtedly learn 
much from the private lessons of competent instructors, she felt 
that medical so fragmentary education resulting a mode from of study a regular could not colleg give iate her course the ; solid and 
moreoveras it was her aim not to incite ignorant or half-educated 
, 
female pretenders to an unauthorized assumption of the physician&equo;s 
officebuton the contrary, to procure the opening of the legitimate 
approaches , , of the medical career to women seriously desirous to 
to throug qualif a regular y h themselves the course medical for of preparation college the worth , and y discharge prescribed the acquisition of to its men duties of , her the by admission medical passing 
wo dip m loma en- - were as a sanction essential for to her the own carry course ing and out a of precedent her plans for . other She 
therefore procured a list of all the medical colleges in existence in 
the United States, and proceeded to address an application for 
admission to each, of them in succession. 
" I am sending out arrows in every direction, uncertain which 
may hit the mark" she remarks, in a letter written at this time. 
, 
Her application, though accompanied by a certificate of her 
having gone through the requisite preparatory study under Dr. 
Dickson, was refused by twelve medical colleges. In some cases 
the refusal was couched in the shape of a homily on the 
subordinate position assigned to woman by nature and society, and her 
presumption in wishing to enter a sphere reserved to the nobler 
sex; or an exposition of the impropriety and indelicacy implied in 
a woman&equo;s attempting to learn the nature and laws of her own 
physical organization. For several months it appeared as though 
even her tenacity of purpose would fail to break through the barriers 
of prejudice and routine opposed to her on every side. But at length 
her path, so long obstructed, began to grow clearer. 
Among the applications she had made throughout the length and 
breadth of the United States, one had been addressed to the Medical 
College of the University of Geneva, in the State of New York. 
The Faculty of that Institution, having considered her request, 
agreed that they saw no reason why a woman, possessed of the 
requisite preparatory acquirements, should not be admitted ; but, 
feeling that the question was one whose decision must rest, 
practically, with the students themselves-as it would have been easy 
for them, if so disposed, to render a place in the amphitheatre 
untenable by a lady,-they determined to refer the matter to them, 
and, having called them together, left the application "with them for 
examination and decision. The students, having discussed the 
subject, decided unanimously in favour of the new applicant; and a 
"Preamble" and " Resolutions" were drawn up and voted hy 
them, inviting her to enter the College, and pledging themselves 
"individually and collectively, that, should she do so, no word or 
act of theirs should ever cause her to regret the step." 
A copy of these " Resolutions," accompanied by a letter of 
invitation from themselves, having been transmitted to her by the Faculty 
was of the entered University on the , she College went -books to Geneva as Ci No in . November 417," and threw of that herself year, 
into the study of the various branches of medical learning thus 
opened to her, with an ardour proportioned to the difficulties she 
had had to overcome in gaining access to them. 
But the position she had striven so hard to attain was not without 
certain inconveniences, inseparable from the nature of the case; 
and though she had weighed, and was prepared to endure them, for 
the sake of the knowledge that she could obtain in no other way, it 
will be readily understood that a young and sensitive woman could 
not find herself placed in so novel a situation, and assist at all the 
demonstrations involved in a complete course of medical exposition, 
without occasional severe trial to her feelings. Aware that the 
possibility of her going through with such a course depended on her 
being able, by her unmoved deportment, to cause her presence there 
to be regarded, by those around her, not as that of a woman among 
men, but of one student among five hundred, confronted only with 
the truth and dignity of Natural Lawshe restricted herselffor 
some time after her entrance into the College , , to a diet so rigid , as 
almost to trench upon starvation, in order that no involuntary 
change of colour might betray the feeling of embarrassment 
occasionally created by the necessary plain-speaking of scientific 
analysis. How far the attainment of a self-command which 
rendered her countenance as impassible as that of a statue can be 
attributed to the effect of such a diet, may be doubtful; but her adoption 
of such an expedient is too characteristic to be omitted here. 
From her first admission into the College until she left it, she also 
made it an invariable rule to pass in and out without taking any 
notice of the students ; going straight to her seat, and never looking 
in any other direction than to the Professorand on her note-book. 
, 
How necessary was her circumspection to the prosecution of the 
arduous task she had assumed, may be inferred from an incident 
which occurred during the lecture in the amphitheatre, a short time 
after her admission. The subject of the lesson happened to be a 
particularly trying one ; and while the lecturer was proceeding with 
his demonstration, a folded paper-evidently a note-was thrown 
down by somebody in one of the upper tiers behind her, and fell 
upon her armwhere it layconspicuously white, upon the sleeve of 
, , 
her black dress. She felt, instinctively, that this note contained 
some gross impertinence, that every eye in the building was upon 
her, and that, if she meant to remain in the College, she must repel 
the insultthen and there, in such a way as to preclude the 
occur-, 
rence of any similar act. Without moving, or raising her eyes 
from her note-book, she continued to write, as though she had not 
perceived the paper; and when she had finished her notes, she 
slowly lifted the arm on which it lay, until she had brought it 
clearly -within view of every one in the building, and then, with 
the slightest possible turn of the wrist, she caused the offensive 
missive to drop upon the floor. Her action, at once a protest and an 
appealwas perfectly understood by the students ; and, in an instant, 
the amp , hitheatre rang with their energetic applause, mingled with 
hisses directed against her cowardly assailant. Throughout this 
scene she kept her eyes constantly fixed upon her note-book ; taking 
no more apparent notice of this welcome demonstration than she had 
done of the unwelcome aggression which had called it forth. But 
her position in the College was made from that moment; and not 
the slightest annoyance, of any kind, was ever again attempted 
throughout her stay. On the contrary, a sincere regard, at once 
kindly and respectful, was thenceforward evinced towards her by 
VOL. I. H 
her tinued fellow th -students old her ; lf and aloof thoug from h,soc for ial obvious interco reasons urse w , ith she th still em, con yet - , 
o se 
whenever of their common the opportunity studiesthe of so alwa doings showe presented d themse itself lv in es the read course y and 
y y 
anxious . to render her any , good offices in their power, and some of 
them Theare feeling amon of g her embarrassment truest friends which at this had day caused . her so much pain 
soon on her modified first appearance by familiarit am y ong with her topics fellow form -students in ing the the subject was i , however in of t daily t , 
s an tud d ya , dan mira d was tion a exci t leng ted th byen t the irel wonderfu y absorb led and beau g trow ifuln meo g han eres ism 
of the human frame. But the suffering it had caused her, ofon her 
viding den en trance ts onl a first int an o -class the institutio C medical olleg ne, which suggested school she for to hopes the her receptio to the establish desirability n of in female course p stu ro of- - 
y; 
time. 
with within But which thoug the walls h she the of was " lad the y regarded College student , t "he in had sus the thus picious little admission made an town d good hosti to was her le curiosi position long suitable ty in 
boarding subsiding -house . She ; could the heads not, at of first those , obtain establishments having a been 
threatened with the desertion of their " best" inmates if she were 
receive from the d. College As she , audible went thro whispers ugh the of streets " Here , she on comes her wa !" yor to ru and de 
the laddoctor! 
cries of " Come onBill! let&equo;s have a good look at y-" 
would meet her ears , ; and not only idle boys, but well draw -dressed in little men 
knots some and women s along tran ,e the wan ould pavement ima p l lace from themselves , to anot see her her before lanet go by . , her as But thoug , or the h passage she up had of been the 
p 
taking quiet-looking no notice g little of the figure rude , dressed people about With her ceased the , and utmost to looking excite simp remark neither licity, 
and to the when right she han had d nor been to the called left, graduall b y the wives of some of the ; 
professors, the most " respectable upon " of the y boarding-houses consented 
to receive her as an inmate. 
Blockley ceeded During in Hosp the gaining ital College near permission vacation Philadel to , in hia reside the where summer as a she house continued of - 1848 student , to she in prose suc the - - 
cute her studies, and , was engaged p in , active medical practice among 
her the patients first baby accouchement that in the with female , bring its colour wards ing safel . and It y "was into its pauper here the world that parentage she a poor performed , would little 
probabl negro y- , as it seeme , d to her-have but skill small reason the to autumn thank her she , 
returned in after life to , for Geneva such an where exercise she of her leted . her In collegiate course 
, comp 
during From the the following time when winter she . had first resolved to enter upon the 
study of medicine, until a very recent period, she pursued a system. 
of self-denial in every branch of personal expenditure so riid that 
it would be hardly credible to those who had not -witnessed g its 
details, and involving privations that only her exceptional 
temperament could have enabled her to undergo. Her arrangements were 
invariably made on the most inexpensive scale; she put up with 
. the simplest accommodations, dressed with more than Quaker 
plainnesswent about on foot in all weathers to the utmqst limit of 
, 
her strength, and resolutely denied herself everything, without 
exception, that it was possible for her to do without. Her refusing 
herself a little bottle of eau de Cologne, which she could have bought 
for fourpence-halfpennyand to whichbeing very fond of scents 
, , , 
she happened one day to take such an especial fancy that she was 
haunted for years with occasional visions of that same little bottle 
was in accordance with the invariable rule she had marked out for , 
herself. Acts of rare generosity on her part towards others during 
this period might be cited; but with regard to herself-although 
additional resources were placed at her disposal by her relatives in 
England-her self-denial was inexorable; every farthing thus 
economized being regarded by her as so much gained for the 
exigencies of future study, and treasured accordingly. Such having 
been her inode of action from the beginning of her student&equo;s career, 
¦ stud it was y drew not without towards an its almost close, she heroic compelled effort that herself , as to her purchase course o a f 
handsome black silk dress for the grand affair of her graduation. 
In a letter written at that timeshe says,-" I am working hard for 
, 
the parchment, which I suppose will come in due time; but I have 
still an immense amount of dry reading to get through with and to 
beat into my memory. I have been obliged to have a dress made 
for the graduation ceremony; and meanwhile it lies quietly in my 
trunk, biding its time. It is a rich black silk, with a cape, 
trimmed with black silk fringeand some narrow white lace round the 
neck and cuffs. I could not , avoid the expense, though a grievous 
one for a poor student; for the affair will take place in a crowded 
church; I shall have to mount to a platform, on "which sits the 
President of the University in gown and triangular hat, surrounded 
by rows of reverend professors; and of course I can neither disgrace 
womankindthe College, nor the Blaokwells, by presenting myself 
, 
in a shabby gown." 
In January, 1849, the ceremony in question took place, as just 
described. The church was crowded to suffocation ; an immense 
number of ladies being present, attracted from every point of the 
compass, from twenty miles round, by the desire to witness the 
presentation of the first Medical Diploma ever bestowed on a woman ; 
and among the crowd were some of her own family, who had come 
to Geneva to be present on the occasion. When the preliminary 
ceremonial had been gone through, with, and various addresses had 
h 2 
been delivered, the -wearer of the black silk dress ascended to the 
the platform hands with of Dr a . Lee number the of venerable her brother President -students of , the and University received from , the 
word much- Dominus desired Di ch p anged loma , , to whi Domina ch with , admitted its seal her and into blue the riband ranks , and of the the 
Medical fraternity, hitherto closed against her sex. Each student, 
on receiving the diploma, returned a few words of thanks. On 
receiving hers, Dr. Elizabeth replied, in a low voice, but amidst a 
hush of curiosity and interest so intense that the words were 
audible throughout the building,- iven to studies 
b " the I thank Institution you, Mr of . which President, for are the the san head cti . on With g the hel my of the 
Most y Hihit shall be the endeavour you of my life to do honour p to the 
g, 
Di The ploma Presiden you have t, in conferred his concluding upon me address ." , alluded to the presence 
of a lady-student during the collegiate course then closing, as "an 
innovation that had been in every way a fortunate one" and stated 
, 
that " the zeal and energy she had displayed in the acquisition of 
science had offered a brilliant example to the whole class; " that 
" her presence had exercised a beneficial influence upon her 
fellowstudents in all respects"; that "the average attainments and 
general conduct of the students during the period she had passed 
among them were of a higher character than those of any class that 
had been assembled in the College since he had been connected 
with the Institution;" and that "the most cordial good wishes of 
her instructors would go with her in her future career." 
The thesis written by her for this occasion was highly approved 
by her Professors, and was printed by order of the Faculty. 
Soon after .her graduation Dr. Elizabeth returned to Europe, with 
a view to the further prosecution of her medical studies. After 
a short stay in England she proceeded to Paris, and applied for 
admission to the Medical Schools and the Hospitals. But though 
provided with letters of introduction to many of the most eminent 
physicians and professors of the capital, she was for some time 
unable to obtain access to any of the facilities so liberally provided 
for Medical Students of the other sex. Most of the physicians just 
alluded to assured her that it would be impossible for her, as a 
woman, to gain an entrance into the Schools or the Hospitals; and 
strongly advised her to assume masculine attire, as not only the 
readiest, but the only way of accomplishing her end. Such an 
expedient, however, she at once rejected, as repugnant to her tastes, 
and contrary to the aim she had in view. She invariably replied, 
when urged to its adoption, " I am not acting for myself alone, but 
for the sake of all other women; and what I wish to do I must do 
as a womanor not at all." She accordingly persevered in her 
, 
efforts, and at length succeeded in gaining admittance, as a 
residentpupil, into the great Lying-in Hospital of the Maternite, and in 
visiting some of the other Hospitals. She also went through a 
private course of Anatoiny and Dissection with one of the best 
professors of the capital. 
On leaving Paris she visited G-raefenlberg; and then returned to 
London, where she studied Medicine at St. Bartholomew&equo;s and the 
Woman&equo;s Hospital in Red Lion Squareand made acquaintance with 
, 
the system, of Medical Gymnastics devised by Ling, and introduced 
into England by its able expositor, Mr. Georgii. During this period 
she obtained testimonials of study from Baron Dubois, Dr. Burrows, 
Dr. Hue, Mr. Paget, and other eminent Physicians and Surgeons 
under whom she had continued her Medical education in Paris and 
in London. 
An invitation to prosecute her studies in the Royal Hospital of 
Berlin, with the promise of the freest admission to every department 
of that Institution, was addressed to her, in terms expressive of the 
warmest approbation of her course, by the principal Physician of 
that Institution; an invitation, however, of which she was unable 
to avail herself. 
Having already, by her previous efforts, brought the subject of 
Female Physicians for Women and Children prominently before the 
public of the United States, she regarded that country as being 
probably better prepared than her native land to support a 
ladydoctor. She also knew that her example had already led many of 
her own sex in the United States to enter upon the study of 
medicine ; and considered it as incumbent on her to afford all the aid in 
her power to those who were thus preparing to follow in her stej)s. 
She therefore, on the conclusion of her studies in London, withstood 
the efforts of relatives and friends who urged her to establish herself 
in that city, and returned, in 1851, to New York. In a letter, begun 
towards the end of her voyage out, she says,- 
" I commence my letter nowfor I have just learned the blessed news that 
we shall probably reach New Yo , rk to-morrow; such welcome news, for I am 
once so intensel more y on weary dry land of the voyage M , y and chief cannot pleasure express on board my has impatience been to watch to be 
American the sunsets sh , ore which . I have becom never e more seen and anything more more gorgeous beautiful as we than aj the ^proach sky last the 
evening sunset transfigu , when a red magnificent the west. rainbow But the filled thoug the ht of eastern how far heavens how , while far a I regal am 
going from the noble Old World of my girlhood, and my , dear very kind friends , 
hours there, looking has been out pursuing upon the me dreary sadly ocean throug . h Lad the y ¦ voyage &equo;s , sweet as I have venerable stood face for , 
and haunted dear me continuall with her y poet-eyes On , landing and , I , break and fasted so many at an others hotel , , hav and e 
hosp then itable drove household to Mrs. A . &equo;s, was where wai I ting had for a most me, cordial and with welcome her aid from I foun that d 
of my red present brick lodg houses ings , and . How the crowd my heart s of sallow sank within eager me men at and the monotonou frivolous-looking s lines 
morning women, and is one the of money those -grasp cool, ing delicious atmosp , crystal here of days New when York merel ! . . . y . to But live this is 
eve blissful rything ; and , and I am do quite my d disposed uty heartil to y set in America to work, . seek I have out no the doubt good side of the oC 
rather propriet than y of my in decision England to ; for commence I believe my it career is here as a that physician woman in will this country be first 
idea recognised of the as coming the equal change hal is f of so humanity much Hebrew . To the sex French has so and letel Germans warped the 
; compy 
tion comprehended their with minds regard that there to they women is seem a . deep to In have -rooted England lost antagonism , the where power the to of idea formi its can practical ng be a intellectuall large admission concep y - 
which it may , take generations to modify; and though I glory in the 
reformrespect spirit of for our labour native land and , the in the wise steady practical growth measures of her political that are institution occupying s, the the 
and that minds , the as of far central the as I best can reform , judge classes has , I in not should the yet country found say that in , I Eng the cannot land time a close for single woman my earnest eyes to be to advocate acknow the fact - ; , 
is still in 
ledged as the free fellow-worker and necessary complement of man 
the one the best invisible whose thinkers practical future in . elucidation the In c America ountry cannot are this prepared be subject much to has longer ive alread it delayed their y been earnest ; recognised and attention many as of 
and work sympath in. . . y . . But I cannot how much , therefore I shall , doubt envy that you this g your is the lovely right Eng place lish for spring me to ! 
Take an extra whiff of the violets for me, and give my love to the daisies."* 
Dr. Elizabeth now established herself in New York as a physician 
for women and children, to which classes of patients her practice 
has always been exclusively confined. Her success in the field 
of labour she has chosen, though now assured, "was exceedingly 
gradual. Standing aloof from all parties, and incapable of resorting 
to the system of puffing and self-vaunting so much in vogue among 
our transatlantic cousins, she could only trust to the inherent 
worth of her attempt, and the aid of time in making such worth 
evident to those around her, to create for her that sphere of 
practice which opens so slowly to all young physicians, and which 
- was inevitably still slower to open in the case of so novel a 
practitioner. Minor annoyances, too, were not wanting. Certain 
physicians, affecting to ignore her medical claims, refused to meet 
her in consultation: the race of landladies-notwithstanding the 
exorbitant rents she paid for her rooms-appeared to regard a 
lady-doctor as something mysteriously dreadful, and caused her 
serious inconvenience by sending away patients, and neglecting to 
deliver messages. The other members of her family in the United 
States were in a distant part of the country, and the comparative 
isolation of her life, during the first few years of her residence in 
New-York, was painfully oppressive to her. But her quiet perseverance, 
as usual, gradually surmounted these unfavourable conditions. One 
or two physicians of the highest standing in the city, beginning to 
appreciate her skill, declared their readiness to meet her in 
consultation, and no farther hesitation was manifested on that score. 
The purchase of a house secured to her the advantage of a permanent 
horne ; and the other members of her family having established 
themselves in New York, she was once more surrounded by the 
violet * The has daisy no scent is unkno .-A. wn B. in America except as a cultivated exotic, and the American 
home-sympathies of which, she had been deprived ; while the 
extension of her practice as a physician has been the natural result of her 
success in the families by -whom her medical services were 
successively employedand has constantly increasedwith that steady 
, , , 
spontaneous growth which constitutes the best evidence of the 
vitality of any undertaking. 
. In 1852 she delivered a series of lectures, to ladies, on subjects 
connected with health and physical development. In a letter 
written at that period she remarks, " I am trying to interest people 
in my plans for the sanitorium I am so anxious to establishand 
, 
which I hope to accomplish in course of time. The importance of 
physical training becomes constantly more and more evident to me, 
and I mean to make aesthetic gymnastics a&equo;main point in my lectures. 
I shall not be satisfied until I see a gymnasmm on Hang&equo;s system 
introduced here, and exercise taught to children as regularly as 
reading." 
In 1853 she published a work entitled &equo; The Laws of Life, considered 
with Reference to the Physical Education of Girls; which has been 
favourably noticed both in England and in America. 
In the same year she established a Dispensary for JV oraen 
and Children, beginning with the furnishing of advice and 
medicine gratis to applicantsbut with a view to the subsequent 
extension of the undertaking , by the reception of in-door patients 
as its funds should increase-with the triple aim, as set forth 
in the prospectus,-first, of providing indigent women with the 
medical aid of physicians of their own sex, and thus proving by 
experience the efficaciousness of such aid; secondly, of giving to 
this class of patients, with the advice and medicine called for "by 
their disease, plain, kind advice, in relation to the care of their 
. health, the education of their children, and the formation of rational 
habits of life ; thirdlyof training an efficient body of nurses for the 
community; thus rendering , an important service to society, by 
providing suitable occupation for many deserving women "who would 
gladly become nurses could they obtain the necessary training, and 
insuring the welfare of the patients by placing them under the 
care of well-chosen and faithful attendants. This Dispensary was 
organised by the nomination of Messrs. Butler, White, Haydock, 
Sedgewick, Collins, Field, Draper, Grreely, West, Harris, Foster, 
RaymondFlandersDanaManningSpringand Bowneas Trustees. 
Consulting , Physicians , , Drs , . Kissam , , Parker , , Cammann, , and Taylor. 
Attending Physician, Dr. Elizabeth BlackwelL The following 
extracts from the « First Annual Beport of the New-York Dispensary 
for Poor Women and Children&equo; will show the success which had 
attended the new institution, incorporated in 1854 by an Act of the 
Leg "The islature Eleventh of New Ward York , . " says this Eeport, "was chosen as the 
location of the dispensary, it being destitute of medical charity, 
while has possessing been regularl a densely opened crowded throug poor population h the year . The on Monday Dispen- , 
women Wednesday sary have , received and Friday medical y afternoons aid. All , at these 3 o&equo;clock women . Over have , gratefull 200 poor y 
the most 
destitute acknowled have ged the tendered help afforded their few them, and as several an offering of to the 
ventilation institution. and With judicious all these diet patients , has been , pence the strong necessity ly urged of cleanliness ; and in , 
word many of cases counsel , the advice or information has been , too followed , has often , at least been , for g work iven a time to . well the A 
destitute widow or the friendless girl, who was seeking as 
out as health suitable ; the charities best methods occasionall of finding recommended employment , and have pecuniary been pointed aid 
y 
and sometimes , severe g weather iven. Since have the so " double weighed distress upon the of commercial poor, many pressure cases of 
extreme destitution have come under the cognizance of the 
Dispenfriends sary. These or have been and ignorant chiefly emi of grants the Eng , mostl lish y language Germans . , without Several 
families have money been , visited where some member "was ill, and found 
and to be industrious utterly destitute disappointed , suffering in from every hunger effort , to and obtain , thoug work h honest . To 
such families a little , help in money, generally in the form of a loan, 
till work could be procured, has proved invaluable; and a small 
despai Poor cian, - for Fund r and this , p impending laced special by object friends starvation , has in saved . the This hands several institution of worth the attending was y familie commenced s ph from 
ysikept by the within subscri its ptions means of , but a of few its the friends fu power nds ; It of its is doing expenses found good desirabl have has been been to 
limite enlarge d its the by operations trustees the smal wish lness , and to p raise lace it the on sum a . permanent of 5000 dollars basis. and For contri e this - 
purpose , 
butions are earnestly solicited. The amount raised will be invested as 
a permanent fund for the it institu essentiall tion. It is the ital hope for of the founders and 
School of this of charit Education y to make for nurses but y for a Hosp this the Dispensary Women is , the 
; 
best foundationand to that alone all effort is at present directed.". 
The steady success , of her Dispensary was such that Dr. Elizabeth 
was enabledin May1857to open on a small scale a Hospital for 
Womenwhich , is now , in , successful operation. The house which 
has been , appropriated to this purpose is large, airy, and well 
situated ; it already contains fourteen beds, and this number will be 
increased as the requisite funds are obtained. A grant of pecuniary 
aid has recently been made to this institution by the Legislature of 
the State of New York, out of the General Hospital Fund; but the 
greater part of its expenditure has hitherto been, and must continue 
to be, defrayed by private contributions. The proceeds of a bazaar 
-of which a large proportion of the articles offered for sale were 
sent over by friends in England-sufficed for the furnishing of the 
rooms now in use; the rent and current expenses for the first three 
years being secured hy private subscriptions. The Executive 
Committee of the hospital consists of the following members. President, 
Stacy B. Collins, Esq. ; Treasurer, Robert Haydock, Esq. ; 
Attending PhysiciansDr. Elizabeth and Dr. Emily Blackwell; Resident 
Physician, Dr. , Maria E. Zakrzewska; Committee, for donations, 
Mrs. PendletonMiss HowlandMrs. C. M. Kirkland, Mrs. R. S. 
Beatty ; Cyrus , II. Field, Henry , J. Raymond, Charles Butler, 
Horace GreelMarcus SpringEsqrs.of New York; Mrs. F. Shaw, 
Staten Island y ; , Miss Catherine , Sedge wick , , Lennox, Massachusetts ; 
Dr. ElderDr. Ann PrestonPhiladelphia; Mrs. J. F. Clark, Dr. 
Harriet R. , Hunt, Boston ; Horace , Mann, Esq., Yellow Springs, Ohio. 
The services of Dr. Elizabeth and Dr. Emily Blackwell, and of 
T&gt;r. Maria Zakrzewska, are given gratuitously to the hospital, in 
which they take the most active interest. 
Meantime, Dr. Elizabeth&equo;s younger sister, Emily, who had 
determined to follow her examplehad begun, in 1846, to accumulate, as 
a teacher, the funds required , for the prosecution of her medical 
studies. Possessed of magnificent health and indomitable energy, 
at home in the Latin, French, and German languages, with a fair 
knowledge of Greek and mathematics, a memory so prompt that a 
single reading usually sufficed for the committal of the longest 
recitation by her in was prose ever or forgotten verse, and and so cap retentiv able e like that her nothing sister, once of enduring learned 
, , 
any amount of self-denial, and of encountering any amount of 
oppositionin the attainment of an end, she was well calculated to follow 
in the , path in which Dr. Elizabeth had been the pioneer. In 1848 
she entered upon a course of medical reading and dissection with 
Dr. DavisDemonstrator of Anatomy in the Cincinnati College; and 
continued , these preiDaratory studies, while still engaged as a teacher but , 
until 1851. She then applied for admission to Geneva College, 
was refused; the faculty stating that they were not prepared to 
consider their previous admission of Dr. Elizabeth as a precedent 
for the admission of other women as students. She then applied to 
ten other medical colleges, and was refused by them. all. She 
succeeded, however, in gaining admission to the great Free Hospital 
having different of Bellevue been medical , in granted New colleges York b . the , while In Medical the continuing autumn College of her of 1852 app Chicago , lications her app (Illinois lication to the ), 
she entered that institution y and pursued the regular course of study 
through the winter term. , During the succeeding vacation she 
reat Bellevue 
turned to New Yorkwhere she resumed her attendance , 
and began the study , of chemistry with Dr. Doremus, Professor of 
to Ch On emist her returning great ry in the surprise to New Chicago York and at disappointment College the close . of , the that vacation the doors , she of found the, 
college were closed against her. The faculty had been censured by 
the Medical Society of the State for having admitted a female 
student into the college, and they had therefore determined to 
exclude her. Leaving Chicago, she at once resumed her 
applications to other colleges; and at length succeeded in gaining 
admission, with permission to stand her examination for the diploma, in 
the College of Cleveland (Ohio), where she completed the 
interrupted course of her studies, whose conclusion is thus described in 
a letter written shortly afterwards by Dr. Elizabeth :- 
two " Ernily is now sis Dr ters . Emil ! y She Blackwell ; you have the honour at Cleveland of possessing after 
passing professional a triumphant examination graduated , being congratula very quietly ted thereon by her , 
proinvolved fessors, and in t reading he Stud her y of T Medicine hesis, whi .&equo;" ch is an excellent one, on &equo; The Principles 
In the spring of 1854 Dr. Emily returned to Europe for the 
further prosecution of her Medical studies. In Edinburgh she was 
admitted to the Xiying-in Hospital of that city, and studied 
Midwifery and Female Diseases, for eight months, with Dr. Simpson. 
In 1855 she visited Paris, "where she folio wed the Clinical Lectures 
of the most eminent Physicians and Surgeons of Paris, in the great 
Hospitals of the Hotel-Dieu, Beaujon, and St. Louis ; visited 
assiduously at the Hopital des Enfans Mdlades; and spent several 
months as a resident pupil in the vast Lying-in Hospital of the 
Maternite. In 1850 she visited at St. Bartholomew&equo;s and other 
Hospitals of London. The scope of these studies may be inferred 
from testimonials presented to her by the distinguished Physicians 
and Surgeons under whom they were carried on.* 
* Of these Testimonials we select the following, which will doubtless be read with 
interest by our readers :- 
From James Y. Simpson, Esq., M.D Edinburg ., Professor h. of Midwifery in the University of 
" My dear Miss Blackwell 
, 
" I do think that you have assumed a position for which you are excellently 
men sho qualified ul td pro be , gr a f n u esses d llyin , and wit hich is perfectl ev you iden y may tl educated y a , as matter a t ; eacher and of the I , firml do utmost a y grea belie t importance amount ve thato i f t that good would female . be Asdif this phy ficul sicians move t or 
impossible to find, for that purpose, any one better qualified than yourself. 
and" After best op you port were unity introduced of testing the to me extent by P ofro y four essor medical Sharpe acq y of uiremen London ts , durin I had g t the he p faires eriod t 
of eight months when you studied here with me, and I can have no hesitation in stating to 
wh youo - w what as bett Ier have ac often uaint "ed stated with to the others ancien - t that and I modern have rarel l y met with or more a young learn ped hyin sician the 
q anguages 
literature relation to , s patients cience, and , and practical in your details kindly of care his and profession treatment - , Permit of them me , , to I add ever , tha found t in you your a 
&equo; most womanly woman.&equo; Believe me, with very kindest wishes for your success, 
" Yours, very respectfully, 
"James Y. Simpson." 
From M. Huguier, M.D., Paris. 
Faculty " I, the of undersi Medicine gned of , Member Paris, Surgeon of the Imperial of the Beaujon Academy Hosp of ital Medicine , &amp;c, , certif Professor y that of Miss the 
Emily Blackwell, Doctor of Medicine, has followed, with zeal and exactitude, my clinical 
It had been Dr. Emily&equo;s intention to establish herself, on the 
termination of her studies in Londonas a Physician for Women and 
Children in that city; but a desire to , aid in the development of the 
Women&equo;s Hospital in New Yorkas a field for the practical 
demonstration of the efficiency of Women , -Physicians, and for the Medical 
education of other womeninduced her to postponefor a few years 
the carrying-out of this intention , ; and in the autumn , of 1856 she , 
returned to America, where she has joined Dr. Elizabeth, and where 
she purposes remaining until the hospital shall no longer call for 
personal co-operation on her part. 
For the information of those who take an interest in the 
constitution of this nascent establishment, I may add that its resident 
Physician, Dr. Maria Elizabeth Zakrzewska, is a Polish lady of high 
character and education, the daughter of a physician, by -whom she 
was carefully instructed in Medicine and Midwifery ; branches 
grea course t aptitude on the Diseases and tasle of for Women science . . I also certify that Miss Blackwell has always shown a 
ei HUGUIER." 
From Clement Hue, Esq., M.D. Senior Physician to St. Bartholomew&equo;s and Christ&equo;s 
Hospitals. 
" I have had the pleasure of being most diligently attended by Miss Emily Blackwell, 
me M.D man ., for opportuni some months ties of during witnessing my visit her to arden the t patients love of knowled of the Hospital her . indefa This tigable has afforded zeal in 
the examination y of disease, her sound judgment and kind feeling ge . , 
gained " In the the profound wards of respect the hospital of my , and pupils by as the wel bedside l as" the of grateful the patien acknowled ts, Miss gments Blackwell of my has 
poor patients. I heartily pray that success may crown her benevolent undertaking. 
" C. Hue." 
From Edward Kigby, Esq., M.D. 
and " willing I have l had t the tif p to leasure her medical of knowing acquirements Miss Emil not y Blackwel onlas regards l, M.D. her , for extensive some mon medical ths, 
E readin dinburg g, bu h, ty a also nd es London as yregards . The her equall energy y and extensive devotion ; experience to y her , ob profession tained in which America she , Paris dis- , 
p unos lays tentatious are highly manner creditable She to her wins; the the respect more so and as she esteem pursues of all her those cours who e in are the so most fortunate quiet 
. 
vie as w to know and feel hers . ure I tha sincerel twher y ev wish er her herlot success is cast in she the will charitable be the benefactress object which of her she fellow has in - 
creatures , . , , 
" Edward Kigby, M.D., 
" Fellow of to the the Royal General College Lying of Ph -in ysicians it ,al Senior Examiner Physician in 
Midwifery at the University Hosp of London , , tyc," 
From Southwood Smith, Esq., M.D. 
prac " t Iice hereb at t yhe certif hosp yital that , and Miss has Emil made y-Black hersel well f acquainted , M.D., has with very the diligentl various y forms attended of fever my 
prevalent in this metropolisand their treatment. 
, 
" Southwood Smith, M.D., 
" Senior Physician of the London Fever Hospital." 
From William Jenner, Esq., M.D. 
at struck " the I have Hosp by her great ita intelli l for pleasure S gence ick Chi in zeal ldren stating and , London amo that u Dr n , t on .o E fmil the medical y d Blackwell ayskno of wl myed has visits ge. attended , and that most I have diligentl been y 
, , 
" William Jenner, M.D., 
" Physician to University College Hospital, the Hospital for Sick Children, #&lt;?.&equo;&equo; 
which slie subsequently pursued with, great success under other 
Professors. She was Chief Accoucheuse in the Royal Hospital Charity 
of Berlin ; and assistant to Drs. Joseph Schmidt, Ebert, and Miiller of 
that city. The following letterfrom the Hon. Theodore S. Fay, 
, 
will show her qualifications in the departments of Obstetrics and 
Diseases of Women :- 
certi " The fies that undersi Miss gned Maria , Secretary Elizabeth of Legation Zakrzewka of the lias United exhibited States to of him America very , 
trihihest authorities of Prussia 
as strong a scientific recomm , endations practical, experienced from e g accoucheuse professional of unusual talent and skill , . 
certificate She has been of her chief superiori accoucheuse ty from in the the Royal Board Hosp of Directors ital, Berlin of , that and Institution possesses a . 
but also teacher 
of She obstetrics has not onl and y manifested enjoys the great advantage talent of as a a moral practitioner and irreproach , able as a private 
t character he .bra , She nch has th attained ere bei thi m sor hi e gth h,an rank a hundr over e many din the female city competitors of Berlinwho in 
threaten same by their; acknowled ng ged excellence to monopolize , the obstetric art , . 
"Theo. S. Fay. 
" Legation United States, 
" Berlin, Jan. 26th, 1853." 
Unable to obtain admission to study for the Medical Degree in any 
of the Prussian Colleges, Mile. Zakrzewska, in 1853, removed to the 
United Statesand was admitted into the Medical College of 
Cleve-, 
land (Ohio), where she graduated, on the termination of her studies 
in that Institution. 
In closing this outline of the life and undertaking of my sisters, I 
beg to subscribe myself, 
Dear Madam, 
Yours faithfully, 
Anna Blackwell. 
</wmtext>

