<wmtext>
CONTINENTAL NOTES. 
At length we have authentic information respecting the 
French contingent. Tho Moniteur of last Monday 
announced that upwards of 20,000 mon liad sailed for Gallipoli 
on board war-strips; and tliat every day, at that dato, " a 
portion of the 800 vessels, freighted at Marseilles sets sail 
with cavalry, munitions, provisions, and articles of 
encampment." 
Not only this, we have (lie order of tho dny, issued to the 
troops, by Marshal St. Ariniud. It is us follown:- 
14 SoldierB-In a few diiyn you aro to loave for the East. 
You aro going to defend uJlics unjustly attacked, mid to tuko 
they command the seas, and their fleets will feed the army 
while famine is in the camp of tbe enemy. The Turks and 
Egyptians have held out against the enemy since the 
commencement of the war. Alone and unaided they hare 
beaten them in several actions. What will they not do 
when seconded by your battalions? . 
" Soldiers I 1 b« eagles of the empire resume their flight 
-not to menace Europe, but to defend it. Bear them on 
once more as your fathers bore them before yon; afld, lake 
them, let us ali, before we quit France, repeat the cry vrhapli 
so often led them to victory-&equo; Vive rEmperetlri&equo; &equo; • 
" A. De St. Aknaud, Marshal of France, 
Conamauder-in-Cbief of the Army of tho East." 
Vlce-Admiral Parseval-Deschenes, on taking the 
command of tne Baltic squadron, addressed the following order 
of the day "to the commanders, oificers, and sailors:- 
" Oalled on by the Emperor to the honour of commanding 
you at a moment when your courage may be useful to the 
country, 1 feel the most lively satisfaction at finding myself 
once-more in the midst of you. As I have so frequently 
done in my long career, I am about once more to appreciate 
that discipline, that devotion to their duty, , and 
tbakselfsacriSce of French seamen which lead to success, and which 
render me proud to be at your bead. Let your confidence 
in me be as in times past; mine is assured to you. Let us 
unitti all our efforts at the outset of a laborious campaign: 
ani let us know, in the&equo;accomplishmerft of our task, how to 
Inspire ourselves with the sentiments. of patriotism which 
mast be caused by the cry of&equo; Vive I&equo;Emp&amp;&equo;etir Pn 
The- Moniteur of Thursday throws more light on the 
military preparations France thinks fit to make. 
" The report has been spread that it was the mtentioai of 
the Government to make a new levy of 100,000 men. The 
report is not exact. It is true that the Government 
presents to-day to the Legislative Assembl y a project of Taw 
for Sncreasmg the contingent of the class, of 1853. EVery 
ope will understand that, under the preseiit cjrctiinstancea, 
stlcli a measure is directed by prudence, and that " • &equo;it " was 
necessary to take ft before a revision of the Go &equo; uncH. : But 
everything leads to believe that a notable part of this 
effective force will remain at home, as belonging to the reserve. 
The! only object of the present project is, .in reality/ ^ to give 
the Government the faculty of disposing ,of this contingent 
in tlie case, little^ probable, that the honour and interests of 
Fraace should inQperiously .demand it." 
In. th &equo; e midst of this war-work France has a domestic 
trouble. &equo; The committee appointed to consider the demand 
of tlite Government for leave to prosecute HI. de 
Montalembert recommended that leave should be given. This was 
fiercely debated in the hitherto silent Legislative BoHy, a 
staunch minority contending that as M.de Montaleaibert 
did. not authorise the publication of the offensive letter to 
M. Dupin, he on^ ht not to be prosecuted. The early part 
of .Tuesday&equo;s sitting , was marked by a speech from M. 
Prosper de Chasseloup-LaubaL who spoke with ereatdifi;- 
mtj and nnnness as to the nature of the offence attributed 
to M. de Montalembert, and, concluded ty strongly 
recommeading the house, not to grant the authorisation demaaded 
by the Governnoent to prosecute that gentleman. , M. 
Bafoche followed, and, according to his " osual habit, 
&equo;distinguished himself by tbe relentless violence: and unfairness 
•with which he attempted to induce the house to join him1 hi 
his endeavours to crush an eminent man, whose name will 
be Recorded with honour long after M. Baroche himself 
shall have reaped, the fruits of which he has already sown the 
seed. His speech was that of a prosecutor calling for the 
condemnation of a cul p rit-not that of a legislator and 
senator fulfilling a painful , though perhaps necessary, 
duty. His speech created a painful feeling among the 
audience. M. de Montalembert, in rising to reply to M. 
aaroche} commenced his remarks with great calmness and 
moderation; but, after -a few sentences, he became excited 
by the numerous interruptions to which he was subjected, 
and lost his temper. He endeavoured to justify the motives 
wliich had induced him to write the letter to M. Dupin. He 
reminded the Assembly that while he liad always be«n a 
stranger to the spirit of party, he had nevertheless tak«n the 
defence of Government, as long as the Government continued 
hoaest and moderate. It was on that acconnt that he b&gt;cgan 
by supporting the Government during the presidency, of 
Lcuis Napoleon. Bonaparte, and continued to do so till the 
ccntp aVdtat of the 2nd of December. Bat he (M. de 
Montalembert) found it necessary to separate himself from Louis 
Mapoleon Bonaparte from the day that lie had ceased to be 
the head of an honest and moderate Government. At these 
words M. de Montalembert was assailed by the Bouapartists 
-that is, by fully three-fourths of the members 
presentwith loud cries for explanation. In the midst of tho 
confusion, one of the deputies having contrived to overcome the 
din so far as to bo able &equo; to put the question distinctly as to 
what the orutor meant by saying that the Government had 
c«ased to bo "honest and rnoderate," M. de Montalombert 
replied, "The spoliation of tho property of the family of 
Orleans is not an honest act, and tho demand for leave to 
prosecute me is not a modorate one." 
M. Baroche then rose, and, turning towards M. Billault, 
aaid, " M. President, you ought not to allow the Emperor to 
be insulted." M. Billault answered: *l Let him continue; 
this Bpeech is a part of tho documents in the process." 
"What!" cried M. do Montalembert, "do you set up for 
being my judge!" an exclamation of indignation which was 
applauded even by tho deputies of tlio Imperial Legislative 
Corps. 
Iho Legislative Body authorised tho prosecution by 
184 to 51. After the vote, M. Baroclie went up to one of 
tlio deputies who had voted in favour of M. do Montalembert, 
and in a manner which showed the unluoky membor tliat he 
\it\B a marked man, aaid " Monaiuur, vous avez vote &equo; contro 
l&equo;Kmpereur Tho Alonitmv of Thursday announced that tho Emperor 
on tho previous day received M. do llubner, the Austrian 
envoy, who pii&equo;acnted a leltix from hia Sovereign. 
up the defianco flung by tho Czar at tho nalionn of tho 
West. From the Baltic to tho Mediterranean Europo will 
app laud your efforts nntl your success. You will combat 
sine by side with the Ennlisli, the Turks, »ind the ICgyptians. 
You know what i« due to comrades-union and cordiality 
in the intercourse of tho camp ; devuiednoss to tin* , common 
cause on tho field of battle. Franco i»nd England , rivals in 
other timcH, aro now friends and allifH. Tho two countries 
lmvo lournod to cBtoem each other whilst combatim/. &equo; 1&equo;nite.d. 
</wmtext>

