<wmtext>
THE (CAB) STA^TD FREEDOM. 
Ir tho Administration of our country were now 
actuated by a desire to introduce the Austrian 
system, of governing the people in detail, they 
could not have made a beginning more ingenious 
than that of interference with the Cabmen and 
Omnibus-men. Their intervention has been 
strictly of an Austrian character, and they have 
selected for their first objects a (dass who are, 
upon the whole, not pojjular amongst the working 
classes, properly so called. Those classes which 
fulfil the office of servants to the richer classes 
are not viewed with a very friendly eve, and a 
cabman partakes in some degree of tho odium 
which is cast by tho working man upon a 
footman. By a strange perversity attending on our 
trado spirit, tho class who have most reason to 
bo grateful for the services of the cabman and the 
omnibus-driver, and who are most answerable 
for tho faults of thin class, are also far more 
sensible of the foibles than of tho meritorious 
services. .For one uncivil cabman or conductor 
that you encounter, there are ten who are at 
least as courteous as the rider is to them. There 
are some--more even than the rough and uncivil 
-whoso example illicit bo imitated by many 
riders. 
The fact, is, that the experiences of tho 
conductor or cabman, who sees numbers of his fellow 
creatures in their little moments of impatience, 
or awkwardness and blundering, tend to impart 
the philosophy which I he traveller acquires ; and 
then? is many a savant or merchant, many a 
inoralistorstatesman, who unconsciously .submits 
to be claused in a special .sjjstetna untune, by the 
reflecting conductor or cabman. Tho learned 
trontleiniiM \\\\o #ot.s out of ;m omnibus i&equo;;uw, 
forthe most ol 
ward, and is thrown into undignified 
postures in the street on Mie slightest movement,; 
tho elderly, who shrieks his indignation at tho 
conductor because the man has not. before been, 
told, and could not divine by instinct, I hat tho 
moralist wished to gel. down live feel, earlier in 
the Nlnicl,; the statesman who stumbles into his 
cab after dinner, in order to go as quickly and 
as comfortably as possible from tho folly of tho 
board to tho folly of the debate, and. tmporcili- 
ously ignores the arm which is civilly held out 
for his accommodation - either of those 
benighted persons is classed by the cabman in the 
category of the clumsy, the dull, or the 
sourtempered, and furnishes his quota towards 
cultivating that patience and even temper which the 
conductor can only derive from correcting, the 
follies of half his fellow-creatures by the follies 
of the other half, himself remaining superior on 
that elevated foot-board, which stands on one 
side ot the daily path ruled by himself. 
The cabman, for all his coats, is a man; and 
he will respond to the usual test of tickling and 
so forth, at least as much as Shyiock. Now this 
class of our fellow creatures has recently been 
taken in hand by the police, who undertake to 
regulate it with a truly Austrian degree of the 
paternal. The omnibus-driver must not get down 
from his seat; the cab-driver must sit, and must 
not smoke. However cold, however wearied with 
tedium, however stiffened with a moveless 
posture in a winter day, neither of these two men 
must relax his limbs by a little action. The 
" party of order," represented by Colonel Mayne, 
chief commissioner, has so resolved. 
Now, this unimportant class of our fellow 
creatures really contributes to the State in no small 
proportion. Before an omnibus can traverse the 
streets it must have paid three guineas for its 
plates, besides three halfpence a mile of duty for 
every step it goes. The cabman&equo;s "plates cost 
him five pounds, and he pays ten shillings a 
week duty. Economists will say that the 
" consumer" pays for this, and in a very loose 
sense the case may be made out; but you will 
as soon show that the consumer eats the omnibus, 
as that really he pays for its taxes any more than 
any one of us pays our neighbour&equo;s taxes. The 
object of the omnibus speculator is, to get the 
largest amount of revenue out of his passengers, 
and he must do it by supplying the largest 
amount of service at the most moderate rate. It 
is true that the cost of the taxes mar be at the 
first an element in determining him to enter into 
the project or not. But since the rate of fare 
which he fixes, from a penny to sixpence, can in no 
degree be determined by the relative proportion 
of tax charged to each passenger, wr e must perceive 
that the tax really does not reach the passenger. 
The threepenny rate is determined by "the 
higgling" of the market, and it would be impossible 
to determine any proportion of the threepence 
which the passenger pays towards the plates or 
the duty. But even if it were so, still the 
industry of the omnibus owners and their servants 
contributes to the taxes of the State a 
considerable amount in proportion to their means, and 
therefore they merit at least some personal 
consideration as to what may-be the rules enforced 
for public order. 
It is rather remarkable, that while the police 
commissioners are thus coercing tlie cabman, 
they also drive a peculiar species of trade amongst 
that class. It is one of the most singular 
instances of a forced market that we know. Every 
cabman, oninibus-i:onduetor,and driver, is obliged 
to wear his badge in a conspicuous position on 
his person ; in order to exhibit it thus, a belt is 
worn, and this belt has become an article of trade 
with Iho commissioners ; a cabman must buy his 
bcltof the commissioners, and the prico per belt for 
a conductor&equo;s badge is tenponee---the price of the 
ciibmaii&equo;s we do not know. Probably if the 
conductor wcro to buy bin belt in open market, ho 
could procure it for fourpence ; but tenpenoe i3 
the official charge. The commissioners also 
publish a little volume of rules and regulations ; this 
volume hiiH recently been amended, and every 
driver must possess a copy ; we lmve no doubt 
that any publisher would issue thin little 
document at I lie priceof threepence or foui&equo;penoe,-the 
commissioners charge) sixpence for it. 11. will bo 
observed, thai, what with belts and publications, 
theeoimnisBionerH convert Uie Hiibjug;a.Led cabmen 
and conductors into profitable customers. Hut 
that is not all ; the hint regulations urn as 
fallacious JiH if they had been issued by a speculative 
trading firm, for they donol,eontain &equo; i,h(&gt; mien which 
at present press ho severely upon I he cab and 
omnibus community. The cabman is forced to 
pay sixpence for a book that does not guide him 
through the Hevere Ihwh to which his badge hub* 
ponded by tho tonpenny belt subjects him. 
When tyrannical lawn arc attempted, they are 
very apt. to provoke a revolt, which may ho of 
throe kinds-passive and collateral, passive and 
direct, or aggressive. The Cab and Onmibuti 
men might breed a riot in the streets, in which 
case the police would probably have the better of 
it, though the process might tend to put the raw 
lobsters into hot water, and, we have no doubt, 
would redden them considerably. The direct and 
passive is the way to which the men in London 
have resorted; that is-to say, being told not to 
smoke or get off their boxes, in practice they 
have got off their boxes and smoked. 
Possibly, Colonel Mayne&equo;s gendarmes may prove 
as hot in the prevention of smoking as the 
gendarmes of Austria in Milan are in the 
encouragement of smoking; for it is a curious fact, that 
while Scotland-yard adopts the policy of James 
the First, and puts down the weed, Austria and 
Radetzky adopt the policy of Charles Lamb, and 
resist teetotalism in tobacco. Should the 
policeman attempt new means of enforcement, possibly 
the cabmen and omnibus drivers of London may 
imitate the example of their brethren in 
Liverpool, and may withdraw all the cabs and 
omnibuses from London, for a few days. Imagine 
the City without its omnibuses : the Lord Mayor 
without his state coach in ordinaiy; the director 
of bank-association or company without any 
conductor&equo;s fingers to rap as he gets out! Imagine 
an M.P. at midnight, with no cab in sight! But 
there is a large amount of the London population 
dependent upon cab and omnibus for locomotion, 
which certainly has had no share, direct or 
indirect, in encouraging this Austrian procedure : 
to them the penalty would be severe, but they 
might remember, that they must thank 
Scotlandyard for it. consider 
The public at large, indeed, may a 
question yet broader and more important. If 
Commissioner Mayne succeeds in teaching 
cabmen how to live with so. paternal a minuteness, 
it is possible that the same zeal for direction may 
extend to other classes of society. The English 
people is showing a remarkable patience under 
every species of centralized authority. With all 
his faults, a cabman is an Englishman, and he is 
by no means one of the tamest of Englishmen ; if, 
therefore, a commissioner can teach a cabman how 
to live ; can teach him "what to eat, drink, and 
avoid ;" can teach him how to stand or how to 
sit; can regulate his cigar and his beer, a fortiori, 
more pliaot classes of the English people may be 
brought equally under the direct keeping of the 
central Executive ; and we must all await a daily 
way-bill of the " whole duty of man" from the 
Home Office. When we have been brought to 
learn our place in that respect, then England will 
be quite ripe for annexation to the continental 
system ; and we say it is an ingenious device, to 
begin that experiment on the cab driver. Fiat 
experimentum : anybody may ill-treat a cabman, 
for he lias no friends. n 
</wmtext>

