<wmtext>
« JOURNAL OF RAILWAY ACCIDENTS. 
Last October, our readers may remember, we recorded 
an " accident" at the Portobello station on the North 
British Railway. A train, laden with pig-iron, was 
left on the wrong line, and consequently ran over by 
the mail-train. The guard of the goods-train was 
killed. In consequence, three " officials" were tried at 
Edinburgh last week before the Lord Justice Clerk, 
Lord Wood, and Lord Cowan. 
John M&equo;Donald, the driver of the goods engine, 
Thomas Wilson, station-master, Portobello, and John 
Hogarth, porter, were placed at *the bar charged with 
culpable homicide, and also culpable neglect of 
duty-M&equo;Donald for neglecting his duty, immediately on 
arrival, to proceed with his train to the first offset or 
siding which would hold it clear of the main linej 
Wilson for neglecting to give orders immediately to 
clear the line, as he was bound to do if any goods-train 
arrived within fifteen minutes of the mail-train, and 
for neglecting to see the necessary signals presented to 
the mail-train; and Hogarth for neglecting to present 
the signals. . 
Hogarth was acquitted. The charges against the 
other two were proved. The following evidence by 
Mr. Rowbotham, the general manager, was subsequently 
animadverted on by the Court:- 
" A goods or luggage-train is not allowed to leave fifteen 
minutes before a mail-train, and it is tho duty of a 
stationmaster, if it arrives within fifteen minutes, not to allow 
it to proceed. It was tho duty of the engine-man of tho 
goods-train to havo removed his goods-train before tho 
mail-train was duo. Threo or five minutes previous would 
havo been enough. To,havo dono so sooner might havo 
rather impeded than promoted-the safety of the line. Tho 
goods-engine had a certain work to do, and if it could do 
its work within the timo that night, it would rather havo 
promoted tho safety of tbo lino than obstructed it. Being 
at the station thirteen minutes before the mail-trainit was 
not tho ongino-man&equo;fl duty to take his train immediately 
off the linefor tho work would then have to bo dono after 
tho innil-train had passed. I havo not been able to find 
tho regulations of any company providing that a train at a 
station should be shunted fifteen or thirteen minutes beforo 
the arrival of tho next train. Tho fifteen minutes m 
advance) might bo necessary for a train proceeding on its 
journey, but not for a train at a station protected by 
signals. In tho case in question, it wiih a matter of 
expediency for the engino-man to remove bis train threo to 
fivo or six minutes before tho passenger-train was 
expected. When a train is at a station, it ought to be 
foMilied by a signal, and it \h wafer to stop at a station than on 
the lino. I think that they ought to havo begun to tako 
tho goods-engine on tho line fivo minutes before the 
mailtrain was due. This could havo been done in two minutes. 
By tho regulations it wan tho duty of Mr. Wilsonif ho 
wero there, and if not, the porter in chargeto order tho 
lino beforo tho 
engine-man to removo the train from tho 
mail-train wa« due. It wan tho driver&equo;s duty also to do it 
of hiniHolf, and even against the orders of tho guard. The 
guard of the train wan the proper person to select tho 
manner of shunting the waggons, and to prcHcribo the 
evolutions of tho train, and it wan the engine-man&equo;s dufor 
to oboyunions ho thought there would bo danger in 
executing tho orders of the guard. Although by tho rule * 
tho goo&lt;ln engino-man w inntruoted to have the lino cleared 
fifteen minutes previous to the expected arrival of a 
pftHHongor-train, thoro ure Home of the rulos we should not 
oxpeot to bo bo strictly enforced in tho case of a pilot or 
jobbing engine, and especially in eases of omergency. I 
think IhiH was a ease of timerr/enoif." 
The Lord .JuHtico Clerk, in charging tho Jury, said, 
the prisoners were charged with culpublo homicide und 
culpable neglect of duty. 
If there were any fault on their part which contributed 
to the death of Ogilviethey were guilty of the charge, 
whichever way they took it. "7 It was of no importance 
that what seemed to be the concomitant of every railway 
catastrophe, several other persons were involved m it. 
They had to say if guilt was proved against the persons 
charo-ed. It was not enough to consider the charges 
merely as breaches of the rules of the railway company.. It 
was only so far as the acts of negligence led to danger of 
life that the rules were of importance. The testimony ot 
the manager, Mr. Rowbotham, showed how dreadful was 
which such lax notions 
the result of that carelessness on 
the part of superior officers on railways encouraged. It 
showed how heavy was the responsibility of superior 
officers ti-lio would take on themselves to support such 
views as to the duty of their inferiors. It was by the 
pronatation of such notions, by railway superiors sanctioning 
euch lax and such dangerous tampering with minutes, by 
encourag ing them to run such risks, by holding out that 
such things could be done within a minute or two, that 
the safety of the public was endangered daily; and most 
heavy was the moral and the legal responsibility of persons 
who held out such doctrines as these. 
The Jury retired, and after half an hour&equo;s absence, 
returned with the following verdict:-Wilson, Guilty 
of culpable neglect of duty in not clearing the station, 
and M&equo;Donald also Guilty, with this extenuation,- 
that he was under the impression that he should attend 
to the orders of the guard. 
The next day another official was tried, "but the 
charge ag ainst him was " not proven." But the trial 
disclosed the fact, that there was no ind ividual having 
charge to direct th e succession of trains leaving 
Edinburg h station, so that a goods train and a passenger 
train mig ht be started simultaneously, there being no 
communication between the two departments. Several 
of the witnesses stated, that the rules of the company 
were generally understood to be inapplicable to, and 
were not generally acted upon at, the Edinburgh 
station; and the great laxity that prevailed was warmly 
commented on by counsel on both sides. 
The Lord Justice Clerk, in summing up, said that, 
after the disclosures that had been made, it was plain 
that on another such occasion it"would be the parties 
responsible for maintaining such a state of things that 
would be put at the bar-directors or manager. The 
same state of matters seemed to have been continued 
even after this accident, and neither the manager nor 
the directors seemed to have taken any steps whatever 
to prevent the repetition of such accidents. Of course 
such a state of things was maintained at their own 
peril; and if another such catastrop he occurred, they 
had received a pretty plain intimation as to how the 
public prosecutor would deal with those who persisted 
in maintaining it. 
Wilson was sentenced to eighteen months&equo; 
imprisonment, and M&equo;Donnld, who was recommended to mercy 
by the iury, to four months. 
In England, Miss Barlow, a governess, lias obtained 
3761., as compensation, from the Lancashire and 
Yorkshire &equo; Kiuhvtiy Company, for injuries received in an 
accident at the Bootle-lune station. 
Our readers will perceive with wonder that we have 
no railway accident to chronicle this week in our 
journal. 
</wmtext>

