<wmtext>
THE WHITE SLAVES OF THE WEST END. 
Within the fair domain of the ladies who met at 
Stafford House lies a whole region of slavery where the 
Aunt Chloes, and Cassya, and ElizaR of the fashionable 
world toil and moil their lives out for the means of 
living. A " First Hand" in the millinery and 
dressmaking line has made a rent in the curtain and 
disclosed the white slaves at their work. 
" I will now speak of a recent engagement of mine, and 
which in the &equo; one&equo; case will illustrate the majority of the 
&equo; West-end houses.&equo; I held the position of what is called 
&equo;first hand/ and had 12 young people under me. The 
season commenced about the middle of March. Wo 
breakfasted at 6 a.m., which was not allowed to occupy more 
than a quarter of an hour. The hard work of the day 
begun immediately. At 11 o&equo; clock a small piece of dry 
bread was brought to each as luncheon. At that hour tho 
young people would often ask my permission to send for a 
glass of beer, but this was strictly prohibited by the 
principalsaa they insisted that it caused a drowsinessand so 
retarded tho work. At 1 tho dinnor bell rangwhich 
ropast consisted of a hot joint twico in tho week and cold 
meat the remaining fivo days, no puddingand a gluss of 
toast and water to drink. To this meal 20 minutes wero 
given. Work again till tho 6 o&equo;clock summons for tea, 
which occupied 15 minutes. Again to work till called to 
supper at 9, which also occupied 15 minutesand consisted 
of bread, dry cheese, and a glass of beer. All again 
returned to stitchstitch, till 1, 2, or 3 in tho morning, 
according to tho business, while Saturday night was being 
anticipated all tho week, because then no ono would work 
after 12. With this ono night&equo;s exception, all the rest wo 
had for thrco weeks, from tho ond of May to tho middle 
of Juno, was from 3 to 6, while two nights during that 
tinio wo nover lay down. I leavo your readers to imagine 
tho spectral countenance!* of us all. I shudder myself when 
I recall tho picture. 
"At midnight I very frequently lot ull put down thoir 
work to doze for 10 minutos, while, with my watch on the 
table, I kept guard, and about 1 each one received a cup 
of strong tea-as tho principals said, &equo; in oaso wo should 
feel sloopy, to arouso all to work.&equo; In what state of health 
•ould July, tho termination of tho &equo; season,&equo; bo expected to 
find uh poor &equo; English slaves ?&equo; Tho homuoI is easily told. 
Each onoinstead of going to enjoy a little recreation, went 
homo to lie upon a sick bod. l&equo;or myselfI was attacked 
with a serious illness, which laid mo up for throo months, 
and has greatly impaired my constitution. 
" Now, for this cruel inhuman treatment of womankind, 
who in dressmaking Ikmhoh toil harder than any labourer 
in tho brickfield, tlioro is one very simple remedy 
-employment of a proper nuinbor of hands to do tho work. Thora 
are always plenty seeking employment, but it is from that 
ordid lovo of gain that those already engaged may work 
t uemflelveis into their coffins in order that thoir employer&equo;s 
cash-boxes may be the more speedily filled. With your 
permission I will here give a few figures. 
" I have said that in mine, &equo;the dressmaking workroom, 
there were 12 besides myself. There were also seven in 
the&equo; millinery room,&equo; and one in the show rooms. Out of 
these 21 young persons the following received salaries:- 
First-hand dressmaker4&gt;0l.; first-hand milliner, 40?.; 
second-hand dressmaker, 14L ; second-hand milliner, 24-1.; 
saleswoman, 201.; while all the rest had paid to their 
employers good premiums to learn the business. Nowevery 
lady who patronises either Bond-street or its immediate 
neighbourhood, will at once see that the prices they pay 
for their goods will amply compensate the person whom 
they employ to remunerate a sufficient number of people 
to do their work. Would that such ladies would at once 
come boldly forward and say they will bestow their 
patronage on none who permit working more than 12 hours 
a-day, and even that is longer than any one class of men 
work. The &equo; Association&equo; in Clifford-street has done all it 
could to curtail the hours of labour, but even, the houses 
which it recommends deem from, 7 A.M. to 10 p.m. &equo; easy 
hours. 
" I have lately made an application to one of these for 
an engagement, and upon my stating that my health, 
would no longer permit my sitting &equo;long hours,&equo; I was 
answered, &equo; Oh, mine are &equo; very easy, from 7 in the 
morning till 10 at night.&equo; I knew, however, that my altered 
health will not admit of even these &equo; easy hours;&equo; so I 
declined it. Perhaps many will say that the system I have 
spoken of is now rarely adopted. This I positively 
contradict, as I can prove that it is the general system in 
&equo; "West-end houses&equo; while the drawing-rooms, state balls, 
and fashionable dejeuners and concerts are pending, while 
perhaps one or two large trousseaux are in. hand at the 
same time." 
She follows up the letter by more revelations, this 
week, pointing out the " crying evil" in millinery and 
dress-making houses. The " sleeping rooms,"or, as 
she writes, " more properly &equo; sleeping pens/ in which 
young people, after a laborious day&equo;s work, of perhaps 
twenty hours out of the twenty-four, are expected to 
rest, to obtain that .refreshing sleep so necessary to fit 
them for the duties of the day. 
" In most of these dormitories six, eight, and even ten, 
sleep. Imagine the putrid air generated by the breath of 
ten persons sleeping in one close room, without a chimney 
or any sort of ventilation, with scarcely space to move in, 
their own trunks and boxes supplying the place of 
washstand, drawers, and dressing-table. This, I assure you, is 
the case with all the &equo; assistants&equo; except the &equo; first hands,&equo; 
who always make an arrangement to have either a room 
to themselves, or shared only with, the other &equo; first hand.&equo; 
But this is more than the other young people dare to ask 
for-even dare to wish for-on pain of dismissal, with the 
reproach, &equo; Oh, you are too particular for houses of 
business.&equo; Thus must they quietly submit to all the hardships 
imposed by their employers ; thus their health is injured 
and their spirit brokenand they are but living&equo; shadows. 
If they cannot-dare not-speak, with whom, then, does 
it rest ? Who ought to speak P Who ought to bring 
before the public their great oppressions but their &equo; first 
hands ?&equo; I look upon such a house as a &equo; miniature 
kingdom ;&equo; tlie principals as governing it, the &equo; first hands&equo; as 
the 
representing the Ministry, the assistants as 
community, and wo will call the public the judges. Is it not, 
then, the duty of the &equo; first hands&equo;-while yet discharging 
strictly their duty to their employers-to endeavour to 
remove the evils inflicted on themselves and those undor 
them ? Such is my view of the caseand, acting upon it, 
I have come forward single-handed in the cause, which I 
dq hope will bo warmly taken up by those influential 
persons whowith ono word, can call thousands to the field 
of action. At the onsot of my undertaking I was well 
aware that I should call down upon my head the bitter 
revenge of all tho principals of these housesnor was I 
wrong in my conjecturefor there are but few housos at 
tho West-end that are not aware of tho name of tho writer 
of these letters, though it has not been published-being 
determined, if possibleto iind out who is the enemy who 
so daringly advances alone against so many. 
" Nowington" Fends a mite in support of tho " 
undertaking;" and the following facts. 
"My sintcr-in-law, an . orphanwas apprenticed, and30Z. 
was paid ; and what for ?-to have tho privilego to work 
Bovonteeii hours per day for three yearn; that its, taking 
tho average, which is quite under tho mark, from seven 
till twelve for the wholo term, except Sundays both in 
and out of tho season, and ton minutos were allowed for 
all moalH, except dinner, and for that fifteen. I hnvo many 
mornings neon her return from a short walk in the park 
when 1 havo jtiHt commenced buHinosHaccompanied by 
many others from the same house, who havo preferred tho 
quiet walk in tho open air on a summer&equo;s morn to tho 
luuity repose, which would only bo broken in ono short 
hour." 
In another letter, tho First Ilund points to a still 
nioro shocking consequence- of the «yntern. 
" I would ank your permission to mako ono or two 
observations with reference to tins demoralizing affects 
produced by the HyHtein carried on in Uicko first-cluMH Iiouhch, 
and then 1 will not further intrude, but hope that a more 
talented pen than mine will carry out (ho objocfc I havo 
had iu view. On tho Sabbath-day wo are enjoined to meet 
iik tho house of God for prayer. Alas ! there aro but i\&gt;w 
young people in thimo houses of business that do ho -and 
why r Because on tho Sunday morning they are but too 
glu &equo; d to avail themselves of that rest denied to them 
flirough tho week. The afternoons and ovoningH are, in 
rnnnv canes, passed with friondn, but thoro are also many 
who, having left thoir country homos for thin groat 
metropolis to got a living, havo not an acquaintance beyond 
thoir workroom companions. With no frionda to guide 
thtiiJ, no timo allowed thorn for rest, Haying nought of 
religious improvement, I ask, are those poor creatures to be 
moat blamed or pitied who, listening to the alluring tales 
of the seducer, perhaps one of those despicable characters 
who are always on the alert for the weaker of our sex, 
and whom misfortune may have thrown in their path 
during the Sunday afternoon&equo;s walk-the seducer, who 
paints in glittering colours the comparative ease they may 
enjoy if submitting to his advances ? Are they to be 
most blamed or pitied whowith this alluring picture 
before their eyes, and wearied with their existing state&equo;of 
slavery, give themselves up to be tha slaves of sin, 
without even one thought of the fearful vortex into which they 
are plunging? I have witnessed these evils myself, and 
on remonstrating with those so fallen, this has been the 
reply, &equo; Oh, anything to get out of these dens of toil, where 
all we seem to live for is work.&equo; If there was proper time 
allowed for bodily and mental recreation, milliners and 
dressmakers would no longer be spoken as lightly of as at 
present. Most of them have been well educated, and are 
fitted for a much more useful sphere than it is their lot to 
move in, though we do not all possess the same amount 
of moral courage to resist temptation in the midst of trial. 
It appears to me that those employers who stand callously 
looking on while they are precipitately hurrying so many 
young women to an early grave-who in their 
establishments are sowing the seeds and witnessing the growth of 
immorality and consumption in those whom they employ 
without stretching out a helping hand to save them, will 
have a serious account to answer for in that great day of 
retribution when the secrets of all hearts shall be disclosed 
-when prince and peasant shall stand side by side, and 
each be rewarded according to their works." 
Shall we have a meeting at Stafford-house to 
chronicle, whereat the Mistress of the Robes herself will 
propose some remedy to emancipate the white slaves of the 
West End? 
</wmtext>

