<ROOF_TITLE></ROOF_TITLE>
<TITLE></TITLE>
<SUB_TITLE></SUB_TITLE>
<BY_LINE></BY_LINE>
<TEXT>THE ENGLISH WOMAN'S JOURNAL. PUBLISHED MONTHLY. Voi,. III. March. 1, 1859. No. )3. I.—THAIJSTSra SCHOOLS FOR FEMALE SERVANTS, -_^* :— claim Is It possible to to some point to social a time evil when to societ describe y had , which not some , was pressing said to demand _question , immediate in urge a , querulous and special spirit. attention On the ? contrary "We do , we not regard ask this the answer which may which well must be considered be given as to a symptom it as an of encourag that intense ing fact long ; ing one the forand faith inthe indefinite improvability (if we may use progressive term , ) of ourselves state , of and Christian everything civilization around . us In , which a world characterise in which, so a the much most that thoug is practicable htful and remains earnest to among be done us , is should it not be natural anxiousl that y creatures seeking imperative the ? du best ty; means namel must of y however , the discharg social ing often advancement what feel they that conceive their of their work to fellow be has an a _~ - They , , frequentl negative y as obli well ged as to a app positive ly their character energies . to For the examp task le, _either they are of pulling course enthusiastic at down first but , - si or less ht opposing their cautious labor , in nei limine in ghbours this , measures respect have appears which set on their to foot be . more pure Of lossbecause , the g time , which, they might have employed in making headway out , and devising is consumed remedies in the for less the satisfactory errors of others operation . It is of , perhaps pointing , on that account that Mr. Arthur Helps, in his well known work, _xem *' Companions arks. " One of my thing Solitude I see, ," and is that induced is that to there make is the a quantity following of test misp with laced the labor rugged , of labor world which around is us not in consumed the endeavor in stern to 6 compel condelusions Nature to ' of give all us kinds our birth or rather -right in , but putting in fi up ghting obstacles with which strong we us laboriousl and objects y knock we down have , again daily , need in making of, As and I Chinese where have we said mazes should elsewhere between have onl half y the the labor shortest of possible the world line is to pure go. loss—the work of Sisyphus , rolling The up preceding stones to observations come down again may inevitabl serve to y." direct our reader's difficulty large the attention more and to of increasing thoug a obtaining comp htful laint class section good which of female persons of is so being ciety domestic who . made We may allude servants be almost said to . to hourl the We represent all y must eged by a VOI/. Ill, B • 2 TRAINING SCHOOLS FOR FEMALE SERVANTS. assume for the sake of argument, that the complaint in this respect deteriorated is -well . founded The _assiimption , that as- will a matter practicall of y fact lead servants us onward have to has another not point overlooked of much ; namel importance y, the , and extent one to which which a watchful the difficulty public alread practical y referred " character to is (as to it _Tbe is attributed termed) of to the the education unsound afforde and " d un in - doubt elementary that the schools inion for the is gaining children ground of the lower that classes the system . We of cannot education at present op pursued in girls' schools requires a greater infusion of the industrial element, in order that it may be not merel that the y useful teaching but even which innocuous is afforded . It in is such urged schools with is much much force too abstracttoo far removed from those practical duties of life which g end irls . will It , is be said required that to with perform * the when exception their of school a little -days plain are sewing at an , which in the majority of schools is very imperfectly taught, in-M dustrial occupations are entirely neglected, consequently that no laundry provision -work is made , cooking for the , and due household training of matters girls . in It washing is alleged , general that the evil result of this defective system is being daily felt by all beneath those who them depend for home in any comforts degree and upon domestic the services economy of . the Now classes all thisif trueand we see no reason to doubt its' truth, demands our serious , attention , . At a time when the parliamentary grant for . _popiilar education, and the endowments and subscriptions furnished , j by than private £1436 liberality 000is for it not the important same object that , amount -we should to no less determine a sum J ! whether , this , vast , sum is being well spent, and if not, whether a ' to portion the lower of it mi classes ght not and be to society expended in with general much ? We greater say advantage society in general advisedly, for we maintain that the question appertains to than the interest to that of of the the poor higher themselves and middle , thoug classes h taug in ht a in greater the schools degree . | The extent parliamentary from the pockets grant of for those education classes is , derived and there to a is considerable scarcely a | j voluntary parish school to in which arrangement England they and have to Wales furnish perhaps in subscri which already p they tions contributed are for not the required support through as of the a a in essentiall medium this country y of to a the question . grant We , whether propose therefore from the , then and Privy for , the how as Council hi a far g subj her on it e and ct Education is of middle practicable primary . classes It im in is - | I I as portance ordinary we have , elementary alread inquire described schools to , and train if we girls find in , that industrial the conditions work such of the case are such as y to render , such training a matter of insuperable supp difficult lying y, such to inquire training secondl . y, what measures may be devised for Jj ¦ {¦ ) ;) i i' X ': I!; !1 TRAINING _SCHOOLS FOR FEMALE SERVANTS. | |j f } there estab It lishments is is evident abundance in tliat which of in work girls orphanages are to be boarded done , workhouses , and it is lod perfectl ged , and , and y all in possible _whicl othe II 11 I easy we were about to say, to instruct girls in the kind of work t&lt; | _| | I the believe which necessary we that have such instruction referred establishments . is We always do not afforded workhouses say that ; on even especiall the contrary in such y, woulc case , w&lt; ; | | | I furnish us with almost innumerable , instances of cruel neglect ir | | household baking this respect , washing matters . Still , , the as " we be getting obser afforde ve up d d in " before of such fine , instruction laces linen and , and therefore in cooking genera ii ! | j lit I is not our intention , may to include them in our remarks p, . We deal no_^ | I I lower simply classes with the . Our ordinary readers day schools must dismiss attended all by the others children from of theii the | | I j minds (1.) . Can instruction in plain cooking be combined with bookj .; I f taug learning ht at in all girls , must ' schools be ? taug We ht believe practicall that y. industrial It is idle to work speak , to be oi | i ' . f teaching ship. It it is theoreticall patent, therefore y. All , labor that if requires cooking an is actual to be taug apprentice ht, the - t- J raw material to be cooked must be provided. But how is such ; t material to be provided in an ordinary day-school ? It may be said, I perhaps l. , that Those the however parents of who the children thus mig know ht be induced little to send about a I : supp the social y condition , of the , poor. argue If they had , visited very their homes, | | ', I serv knows and ed had , or which learnt ever in can to thousan know estimate , ds thoug of their instances h there difficulties are onl some y ,— One difficulties _" whom who is , the above be world it ob all - I calls wise " who think they know them all,—they would never broach | _| I position thi argument s crude to . send notion Suppose their . , It children however is useless to , that school to parents attemp with t a were to certain answer generall quantity such y in an of a I raw material to be cooked there, would the kind of food sent by | j culinary themJ serve art in in which the most it is remote desirable degree to indoctrinate for that practice them? in The the v answer is evident. But it may be said that the girls might be allowed to dress their teacher'' s food. This plan has been tried in numerous cases, and; the. instances of failure have been quite as numerous. The _experiment has generally been attended with the J same result—the teacher's dinner has been spoilt. Might not one ? dinner very the necessity naturall because , y of predicate they a teacher had such _noi . . The vbeen a result girls instructed ? could Teaching not in the cook of art course their of teacher cooking involves 's , and instruct , they them : had Who . not Thi is been s to point teach instructed in the our because argument ils the there art brings was of cook no us to person i another ? Of to ; _course question the answer which suggests itself pup to the minds of all ng persons s of whom this question is asked, is marked by that sameness whicfo. ] vox., in. b2 4 TRAINING SCHOOLS _FOR FEMALE SERVANTS. |g is said to characterise self-evident truths. It always amounts, to % ¦ this work ,— , to that the the intellectual mistress should training not 1 of onl her y devote pupils, her but attention also to the to book task - |j _i _j of instructing them in industrial occupations. This answer deserves f| notice. We do not see that it is possible for the teacher to do any- Jj thing of the kind. As she could not be in the school-room and fj the kitchen at the same time, either the school or the cooking would §| be school neglected hours , . most In most likely cases both the . Cooking teacher could is bound not be by taug the require ht after - if j| ments of the Committee of Council on Education to instruct her i| after " pup her il-teachers work in " the every school day, excep has been t Sunday concluded , for one . The hour preparation and a half | ip of "her "notes of lessons," and the " fixing of needlework," must :§ exercise also be done and recreation in the evenings . Indeed ; so it that is said she that has the not labor time which even , our for f |f | best strain teachers on the finer of girls nervous ' schools system undergo (which , is all now of us so who great work , and | much I with the brain must sooner or later feel to our cost) is | so , that and those they become " everlasting a prey droop in a ings short " time mentioned to languor by , George general _Herberts debility, J § linen (2) may It is be often taug said ht to that girls washing by the and mistress the _" getting of the school up | " of which fine _|f they attend. This assertion, however, when brought to the test | of experience will hardly be found to be worth anything. | are The at once mistress by the could same not difficulty thoroughl that y instruct attended the the pup question ils in | washing of cooking , etc. | . , and teach her school as well; they would consequently be very | - fectl to subject y taug their ht in clothes laundry to work the , tender and persons mercies would of learners be mo | ; in fact, to ;| the chances and accidents attending a mere experimental process. § As pertinent to this point, we may state that on | one occasion we was attended discussed a public , especiall meeting y laundry at which work the . su Gentle bject of reader industrial , we were training all j I | gentlemen, and of course were very critical. Each of us had some- Jf thing Perhaps to it say was about the lurking washing dislike , much we bore as we to it disliked that made washing us anxious day. • H §j to say all that could be said with reference to the subject | , and then to dismiss itbut notalas ! for ever. The chairman | doubted whether , persons , would send their linen to the school to be 0 exposed washed , ; very and b innocentl y way of y showing inquired the whether dangers any to which | gentleman | it would then be The present effect had of ever that question submitted was his tolerabl own shirts y ludicrous to be . experimented It was electrical upon. . "M |j " " Or Then When like Mt a stout new we p Cortez lik lanet e some swims when watcher with into his eag of the le ken eye skies ; s | | | | | Look He Silent stared 'd , upon at each at a the peak other Pacific in with Barien —and a wild _. all " surmise his men 8 p j i | | M ¦ _TBAINING SCHOOLS FOR FEMALE SEBVANTS. &amp; &gt; ; II j| thing . With . more , reference . suitable to household tlian the work schoolroom it may be and observed its stove that must some be - §| H found desirous to of g being ive full - initiated scope to into the the abilities mysteries difficulties of of those a housemaid in girls the who 's art are of . j |In every way there are almost insuperable way | | fj merely combining attend the industrial school from and day intellectual to day, and training are not of such boarded girls and as jj fi lod It ged remains in the for establishment us to notice in a which plan, which they receive has offcen their been education suggested . , ft |f for been effecting remarked the that object althoug which h it we mig are ht not now be discussing possible to . combine It has | j | teacher industrial , yet and it would the ordinary be tolerabl training to attend y easy of the to school school afford under at both certain the kinds times same of | ;§ teaching in the week by engag to superintend ing a person the industrial department. The case first in | | I - which difficulty weekly the cost that p of lan meets such was a adopted us system here , was and is that upwards of 'which of expense of we fifteen are . In cognisant shillings one . , the It If is riht to addhowever, that this was a case in the metropolis. 51 less Doubtless than g that , in a , un rural der district circumstances , the expense however would there be considerabl would be y | | I I have pense some the expense is to utmost be . ; _defrayed It difficulty is by any , for no alread unfortunatel means y in easy collecting y to the see managers the how funds this of extra requisite schools ex-I 1 us for that carry the ing mistake on the work consists of elementary in the attemp education t to make . It educational appears to | I and establishments object. We perform cannot a function do better which than quot is not e with their a sli primary ght verbal aim modification some remarks from an eminent essayist of the present | | | I 1 1 certainl carving day. " y - A knife not blade . shave An which academy so is well desi of as gned painting a both razor to , which or shave carve should and so to well also carve as be will a a if bank, would in all probability exhibit very bad pictures, and dis-* f $ Jj P | infant count and teach very school the bad societ children bills y, . would A ill. gas , On we company this apprehend prin , which cip , le li should g we ht the think also streets that be ill an a , | H and school that should no part be of organized its efficiency solely for with that a end view should to its be -main sacrificed end; 1 _M course in order if to a school promote , without any other any sacrifice end however of its excellent efficiency ." for _* other the Of : | ;i good special end purpose , it oug for ht to which do so it ; but is established we think we , can have pursue shown any that it 1 ft cannot Can nothing do this in then relation be done to industrial towards the training solution . of the problem of j rearing a better order of domestic female servants than we at present 1 I possess that they in unfit this country the children ? Must who the attend stigma them attach for itself the stern to our _duties school of s 1 ' * Lord _Maoaulay'_s Essays, p. 486. I1 m m ¦ 6 MABGARET OF _NORWAY. womanhood the to be commencement a remedial ? These measure of questions our for remarks the lead ills loudl us , of to which advert societ lains to what y . , as Why we we conceive should said at , y comp two we not training do something schools for towards female establishing servants ? There in eac can h coun be lit ty tleon doubt e or that support such ing schools . As , the once immedi fairly ate organize object d of , -would such institutions soon become should self-Be domestic the training duties, it of would girls be of necessary good character to place in them all near kinds larg of e towns such labors , and yet as servants in places in _sximcientl farm-houses y rural are to accustomed afford practice to engage in some in. poultry Cooking , , attention and baking other , . washing departments The , nei the hbourhood getting of a servant -up of of 's fine such work linen , _schools should , the receive care would of } j &lt;? special l-work to a great extent g , and purchase the productions of the _\ s supp ervants y ' skill. Persons who required good domestics would gladly | the have appl system y occasion to the were superintendents to judiciousl be dissatisfied y carried of the with out training the , we result believe schools of they their , and would , provided lication seldom | . % 1 To establish schools for servants on a large scale, a central app commit- f that tee or their society appeals would for be pecuniary needed, assistance and we see would no reason be fruitless to suppose . | f hope to revert to the subject on a future occasion, but in the mean- | time it may perhaps be worth the attention of our readers Alb . an. | i II.—MARGAKET OF NORWAY. BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS. f ««*— of At so a time much like discussion the present it is , curious when women to turn 's claims back to form the pages the subject of old history and inquire what , position was occupied and what influence or was less wielded honored by the freer women or feebler of the than forgotten we ? past Were . they Were friends they .more and i question equals, or resolves slaves , itself and p geograp laythings hicall , to y the , and men may of be their answered time ? by The the Nomadic map. Regarde tribes, d and as merchandise by the Greeks by and the Rom Asiatics ans as , as beings helots but by lit the tle \ nowhere superior to so their respectfull slaves The y and treated German children s as admitted among , the women the them barbaric to of their antiquit nations councils y were of , ! ) and Northern discussed Europe with . them the business of the state. The Cimbri I were attended in all their expeditions by their wives and pro- § I'''- p phetesses hysicians . and In Britain priests. they Interesting were oracles as these ; in facts Gaul are and , and Scandinavia pleasant , | 1 _ss 1 .i'_. i MARGARET OF NORWAY. 7 | | ¦ jj' &gt;$$_) civilization as it would of be the to liold East, them it must up yet for be a conceded commentary that on ignorance the illiberal and §§ Jf sexes superstition . Hunters bore and no small soldiers share themselves in the , equalit the men y of of the the Northern Teutonic H f § | 1 the races Thus stud they sou y ght of became onl simp y to les dependent be and swift the and on observance the strong subtler , and of reli intellect left gious to , their ceremonies confounded women . m knowle beheld d in ge woman with insp not iration onl , the and alleviator , passing from of their admiration sufferings to upon awe, y J f J|J | North earth Time , . but , however As the the intercessor men , went became far for to enli their change htened sins the before con so did dition the their gods of reverence things . in the for lj§ § woman fade and diminish. - Ashamed g, of their former credulity, jj U they vances plunged of good into breeding the opposite , and refused extreme to , be desp governed ised even by the any obser but - _iH their male chiefs. §§ The tide of emigration and conquest had, in the meantime, ebbed j _Jjf j§ | by Eng and the land flowed Baltic , Ital between y hordes , France , the purified , and shores Spain by of the had Northern . admixture been, as and it of were Central barbaric , re- Europe peop blood led . , | H p Hf | went invaders and inoculated important . Thus with changes influenced the . rude Chivalry , societ virtues y assume sprang and wholesome d into new being aspects customs , and and the under of age the - If became romantic. Perhaps its strangest feature at this period was | | j II | in civilization a revival the darkness of , it the was of woman b reproduced arb - arism worshi and p by of rejected the the Scandinavian far- in off the descendants twili races ght . of of Begun semi that - | | § If 1 idol a anti degenerate . que She peop held le aspect —but a . false reproduced Woman social was status in another no . longer She age was the and at priestess clime the , same an , d but un time the der | _: I their everything swords and to her nothing service . ; Kni poets ghts wrote fought canzonets for her upon smiles her , and beauty vowed ; •Jf I kings of courtesy professed more themselves _humiliating her servants than scorn . Mocked and more by a cruel semblance than lectshe was led to believe herself a divinity; but she was a I neg divinity , without influence, liberty, or education. | ! |§ patronise widel The y at state the this of arts particular society ; was in becoming juncture Northern . acquainted Central and Central Europe with Europe the had literature begun differed to , | | i|| produce a reputation , and for geograp gallantry hy of and the East refinement ; and . had Northern already Europ established e, on &lt; § $ 1 when the contr King ary, Olaf was of almost Norway as ignorant first introduced , and quite the as Christian prejudiced faith , as g I | Absorbed among his in peop their le by own destroy international ing the war idols s, and and temp distracted les of by Odin the . | | §! feuds only known of a turbulent by name nobility to the rest , the of three the Continent great Baltic . With powers civilized were [| Europe they ¦ had, indeed, no interests or pursuits in common,. They If 8 MARGARET OF _JSOttWAY. | crusades had But . latel They y relinquished traded chiefl pagani y among sm. * They themselve took no s, and part , in _unless the m j under a piratical flag", were rarely to be encountered | beyond that point where the North Sea first merges into the Eng| lish Channel. Nay, so remote and barbarous were these regions supposed to be, | that Sweden a ge as ograp two hical vast work realms of unknown the year 1010 to the describes Christian * | world, an and d l| gravely asserts that the inhabitants of Hussia are favored by nature M with only one eye and one leg*! Not, however, to go quite so far m as this ingenious author, we must confess that Norway, Sweden, and m Denmark were, up to the middle of the fourteenth century, in a 1 very unsettled and uncivilized condition. Frequent interregnums 1 and assassinations had undermined the security of all three crowns, If and the oppression of the barons had already evoked more than one J signal and sudden vengeance on the part of the peasantry. I Entrenched in their hereditary domains, these haughty nobles | set the laws at defiance, exempted themselves from taxation, were 1 freebooters by land and pirates hy sea, and stipulated that they | should never be governed by a woman. | How these rude Northmen came afterwards to be both governed I and subdued by a woman; how a woman not only abated them of I their personal privileges, but deprived them of even their national I individuality; how, driven from all their strongholds of pride and § prejudice, they were made to bow lower beneath that woman's yoke | than ever their ancestors bowed in the old time before the _priestesses | of the temple, it is now our purpose to- relate. | Margaret Waldemar, younger daughter of King Waldemar III | , of Denmark and Jledwige his wife, was born at Copenhagen in the J year 1352. Some Danish chroniclers tell a strange story of her | birtli—a fragment of mediaeval scandal, no doubt, and sufficientl | happ undeserving iness, during of serious which credence he had . become After the several father years of two of children wedded | ,| King Waldemar, they say, grew causelessly jealous of his Queen, | remained and banishe , solitary d her and to the faithful retirement , till one of day Soborg when Castle the King . Here , weary she | I of hunting, found himself in the neighbourhood of the Castle, and | went in to rest. Struck by the beauty of an attendant who waited j] upon him at supper, he proposed to make her his mistress. The f;| woman feigned consent, and by such a strategem as that which is | concerted between Isabella and the Duke, in " Measure for Measure," I Waldemar, like Lord Angelo, remained true to his true wife without f intending it. By and by the little Margaret was born, and we are | left to hope that Hedwige regained her husband's love, for the | story goes no farther. f Fiction apart, Waldemar III. was a patriotic sovereign, a tempe | - rate judge, and a profound politician. His life bears an outline | resemblance to that of Charles II. of England, inasmuch as he | I underwent exile and adversity, suffered in his youth for the sins of J 1 MARGARET OF NORWAY. 9 | 1 Ms and father the peop , and le. in " later Wiser life , however was called , than to Charle the throne s, he devoted by the electors himself I to the duties of his position, presided in person at the tribunals of | every city and town throughout his kingdom, verified the title-deeds f of the nobles, and endeavored in every way to consolidate the wel-| fare of the state. In pursuance of this policy, he negotiated an I I j gaged affianced important to the reinstate treaty Princess with him M Magnus argaret in his , dominions to the that deposed monarch , and King 's in second the of Sweden year son, Hako 1359 , en- , | King of Norway. Great offence was hereby given to the Counts of Holstein, whose sister Elizabeth had long been destined for this very j Hako lanned , and therefore whose enmity to attack to Denmark Waldemar was in of his ancient own standing territories . They and j I [ p invaded aided by , the the D Duke anish , of coasts Mecklenburg . Waldemar h and was certain at this nobles time of absent Jutland , in , , defeated Scania, fi the ghting allies for , hurried King Magnus back to . Scania He hastened and conquered home, it however , placed , Magnus once more upon the throne of Sweden, and re-established broken peace throug . The hout year the 1362 north broug . This ht peace many did changes not long , and remain beheld un the - sudden death of Eric, who was the eldest son of Magnus, and heir to the Swedish crown. Some said that he was poisoned to make way opposition for his to brother that brother , some 's that marriage he was with remove the d Princess on account Margaret of his , and some that his own mother was privy to his murder. But on these points all is conjecture. At the same time fresh wars broke out, and many civil troubles; Magnus was again deposed by his powerful nobles; and Hako, now sovereign of both Sweden and Norway Averse , was as they crowned had ever in his been place to . the Danish marriage, the Swedish Barons now opposed it more resolutely than ever, and petitioned Hako to break his faith with Margaret and her father. Waldemar, they argued, was ambitious, and already sufficiently powerful. The Counts of Holstein, on the contrary, were desirable allies; the Lady Elizabeth had a prior claim; and the friendship of her brothers would, in case of need, prove a valuable counterpoise to the influence of Denmark. Besides, the disparity between Margaret and Hako was too great. She was a mere child, and many years must perforce elapse before the state could look forward to an heir—he was no longer in his first youth, and might not live to be either husband or father. Unable to deny the force of these arguments and reluctant to disoblige the chiefs of -his new kingdom, Hako yielded to the importunities of the Swedish states, and despatched an embassy to Holstein. The marriage was then celebrated by proxy, and the bride embarked in a stately galley with all her jewels and attendants, and set sail for Norway. But Margaret's star prevailed notwithstanding, and fche very winds and tides combined to favor her. It 1 10 MARGARET OF NORWAY. | I I was the month, of December. The boisteroits North. Sea was more I than usually treacherous, and the Lady Elizabeth was wrecked | all her suite upon the coast of Denmark. No sooner did | tidings reach Copenhagen, than King Waldemar sent an escort | to bring lendour the . travellers A succession to court of , entertainments and received them were with then extraordinary iven in their 1 1 honor sp ; Hako was invited over to meet his bride, and g | , charmed by the civilities of her royal host, suspected no wrong. i men Hako ts. came Too , h profound owever, and a tactician she found to herse let lf this a prisoner golden in opp her | | - escape tion. , He Waldemar knew his had own laid powers his plans of persuasion and played , and his par he t kne to admira w | | - _, what manner of man he had to deal. He delayed the | between Hako and Elizabeth; he represented the advantages | an alliance with his own family ; he urged the value of his | ser- vices when he conquered Scania for King Magnus just four years j before. His success went almost beyond his hopes. It needed but |f a few days to renew all the old projects, and turn the fickle Nor- I wee weg k ian of from January his purpose , 1363 _* . Hako Elizabeth (without was having forgotten even , and seen in the his first in- v § | tended From wife this ) was point publicl Margaret y married 's personal to the history Princess may of | be Denmark said to . date, fl schemes since up to failures this point and we successes hear of of her others only .as Alread she is involved it seemedin that the " 1 |J , , y she was destined for no ordinary career. Betrothed when only seven j years early age old, of she eleven was wedde , —nor d thi and s without Queen of such two variations great king of doms fortune | a as i seldom befal the first few years of childhood. It had been | a point King throug Hako's hout doub whether le crown she . or First Elizabeth of all of he Holstein broke should faith | with I Elizabeth and affianced himself to Margaret; next he rejected | Margaret Elizabeth, for thoug Elizabeth h she , was and dwelling married h within er by prox the y walls ; lastl of y the he | jilted same 1 city (perhaps of the same palace) as himself, and gave his hand | fallen marria on ge- the vow sist to er the of the child Counts Margaret of Holstein . Had , his the history ultimate of choice North I 1 Europe would have lost its most extraordinary chapters : as it was, 1 shance and a west wind turned the scale in Denmark's favor, and I Waldemar's little daughter entered on that splendid career which | b.as since caused her to be styled " The Semiramis of the North." . I Never handsome, she was at this time almost plain; but tall and I 3trong for her age, and remarkably intelligent. Dark of complexion, I rea boy dy than of wit a g , irlvi , gorous and the both very of reverse mind and of bod her y, sister she was Ingeborg more like . | So a k : _Dold o lament was she her , indeed sexand , and so clever that Nature , that her was father in error used to sometimes i make | a f _ivoman of one who , should say have been a hero. That, althoug _| w&amp;8 his youngest child, he should have preferred to put her | •*9S I MARGARET OF NORWAY. 11 1 in this matter of tlie Swedish alliance, is sufficient proof of the high 1 opinion he already entertained of her talents. Thus it came to pass m jj t N hat, desp and ite all Sweden hazards at , eleven she was King of Hako . 's wife, and Queen of M orway Great were the rejoicings , and years brilliant the age festivities in Denmark; H for not only was an important alliance concluded, but the Hol-§i steiners were outwitted, and a national jealousy was gratified. Mari riage-bells and death-bells, however, differ only in the ringing, M and amid the dancing and feasting which celebrated this triumph, if a heavy sorrow befel King Waldemar, and turned all his smiles to w weeping. Prince Christopher, his only son and the heir to his i j were crown left , died ; inheritrices in the flower of their of his father youth 's , king and dom Margaret . Thi and s great Ingeborg blow if §| put Hako an embarke end to d all for gaiety Norway and , taking plunged his dusk the y court child- into bride mourning with him ; ; 1 j with and the shame hap , less found Elizabeth herself , deceived once more , twice free. rejected "Waldemar , and overwhelmed then offered her the use of a vessel to return to Holstein, but she refused. Too proud to re-enter the world, and too sensitive to endure the jests of the unfeeling, she chose rather to devote herself to heaven; and, H _I crossing over to Sweden, entered the famous monastery of Wadstena, on the banks of the Wetter lake. How, in after years, she I and Queen Margaret met face to face within these convent walls, we 1 shall by and by relate. I In the meantime, King Hako had landed in safety on his own I shores, and presented his young Queen to the Barons of both em-I pires. The Norwegians were content, and received her cordially I enough ; but the Swedes, offended that the king should, after all, have I disregarded their counsels, were openly dissatisfied, and espoused the I grievance of the Holstein family. Partly to conciliate these latter, I and partly because she was still so young and tameless, the child-| I Martha Queen was , who then was consi a daug gned hter for three of the years famous to the St. Bri care gitta of the of Wad Lady - | I . whom stenai she Now was the educating Lady * Marth at the a time had , a and daug this hter was named in every Ingegord way an advantage to Margaret. Naturally ambitious, she strove to surj I pass she learned her companion to love in her every as a branch sister, of and stud so y; contracted naturally affectionate one of the , I earliest and latest friendships of her life. So inseparable were they at this period, and so mixed up in one another's pursuits, that they not erred onl and y " fell rose into at an disgrace instant, together learn'd, , play and 'd , , according eat together to ," a but modern even I| rod Swedish . historian, were not unfrequently whipped with the same Industry, emulation, and obedience, however, are excellent lessons for rulers; and the Lady Martha was, perhaps, the very best governess that could have been chosen for a child in Queen Margaret's position. Learned, pious, and a strict disciplinarian, she II1_H MARGARET OF NORWAY. 1 her labored ils both and , to there cultivate can be the little mind doubt and that improve her tuition the disposition went far to of | | form pup the , future character and found the future greatness of her I ro ex yal treme charge youth . , Margaret It has been had conjectured already conceived that, no the twithstanding outline of that her | | records political gigantic af ambition pr ford oject no which data ; but for of became the this solution we in have later of no so life proof vague the . stak a Mere problem e of historical all ; her for | | f the ously operations as i the nto operations schemes of the mind and of are nature schemes carried , and resolve on to as jud themselves secretl ge of y how and into mys dreams deter teri | | - - | min develope ations, would be as , difficult as to explain by what process the | the deposit surface of carbon of the hardens earth. into the diamond, hundreds of feet below | f When Margaret was at length taken from the Lady Martha| 's protection as in name , and the , wife at fourteen of King years Hako of , age she , became found herself in realit no y as longer | | whose had forgetting Queen deposed brother of two the Hako realms sligh and t . that of g The iven had imperious the been crown put h Swedes upon to had Albert in Elizabeth , nei the of ther meantime Mecklenburg forg of Holstein ivin , | g mar nor | h - , , i j | ried the Princess , Henry Ingeborg Mecklenburg , elder daughter , to W , aldemar of Denmark | , and In sis wha ter t to sp Margaret irit the . young Queen met this disaster-—with | | will cour in t, g an ness d the she society exchan of ged herher books retiremen and her t for fellow the -student pleasures | of a f duties of wife and sovereign—whether the first years of her | mar- ria or saw ge were King happy Waldemar , and i again f at , thi are s time matters she for ever conjectur revisited e onl D y. enm | ark f obscure and imperfect are the histories which should chronicle | * ear sca narr ttered ly at life ive , fan rom d and very the down scra difficult ps the of is Sa it ga to , legend of collate Northern , and any anecdo k literature ind te of , connec w . hich Great | | | e gaps occur in on which ly up too frequentl ten or twent y, and y pages years detail are is always passed wanting over without just record where | | Lt collected would be how most ever picturesque that to and the most time interesting of this very . It Margaret must be re all - I I , , up Scandinavian 3he alone who history rescued was it from legendary obscurity and . defective Of her , youth and that we it know was | I Little ; but as she ages and becomes famous, the records of her reign f _*row Tedious more disputes explicit. between Albert of Mecklenburgh and the two I I iivil leposed war Kings which (Magnus weakened and the Hako resources ) next ensued of all without ; and an definitivel indecisive y | $ ) vhen enefitting a general any, brings peace w up as the conc history luded, and of thi the s epoch new King to the of year Sweden 1370 | , 1 _vas Lot destined left in quiet , however possession , to be of of longer his dominions than ftve . years This ' duration interval ; was at I I 1 MARGARET OF NOEWAY, 13 the expiration of winch, time, many conflicting interests helped to I brine In ; 1375 about " a Waldemar renewal of III hostilities . of Denmark . died from taking some kind of quack medicine , , and left no son to succeed him. His daughters, Margaret and Ingeborg, were the actual inheritrices of his kingdom; but no woman had ever reigned in Denmark, and though each of these Princesses had now become the mother of a son, the direct male line of the ancient dynasty was indisputably ended. Hereupon the States assembled at Odensee, and the subject was formally debated. Although some electors proposed to transfer the succession to a distant collateral branch of the royal family, and some even went so far as to suggest the nomination of a foreign Prince, the majority were throughout divided between Albert, the son of Ingeborg I _«. and Henry, and Olaf, the son of Margaret and Hako. At length, | | after arrived a protracted at any conclusion session, , the and assembl Margaret y , broke whose up dip without lomatic having talents I were for the first time called into service, hastened to profit by the I delay. She was now just twenty-three years of age, dusky as ever, | I expression and in no wise of her beautiful countenance . Still , there and something was something infinitel noble y winning in the I and persuasive in her address. Being at all times more graceful I than majestic, she gained the affection as well as the respect of those I with whom she came in contact; and was, besides all this, gifted by | within nature the with radius such of rare a woman and irresistible 's acquirements eloquence . Conscious as seldom of comes these p I advantages, and fully sensible of the affection with which she was | I regarded every way by to all work classes upon of the her sympathies father's subjects of the electors , she now , and strove turn her in I own popularity to account. She spared neither promises nor pre-| | conciliated sents. She the flattered peasantry the . aristocracy She engaged , she , with courted certain the church limitations , she , j I instead that the of noble the s money should being receive paid the over fines , as inflicted heretofore on , to their the vassals crown; , that ho man in holy orders should be invested with civil or military dignities ; and that the King should never enter upon a war without first obtaining the consent of his nobles, senators, and clergy. To the church she guaranteed the continuance of its full rights and immunities, and undertook that no layman should hold benefices ; 1 that no aliens should become dignitaries ; that bishops should be | ! clergy amenable should only be to their liable ecclesiastical to none but jud their ges; bishops and that . the As for inferior the I peasantry, the very conditions upon which she bribed them argue the wretchedness of their position. No man, she promised, should be executed without trial, or forced to repair the royal palaces without payment, or have his goods confiscated without sufficient offence ! being proven against him. Nay, more—when judicially convicted and sentenced to death, he was to be allowed a month and a day to flee the kingdom! 14 MARGARET OF NORWAY. Extravagant of tlie nation as some and inclined of these the clauses deputies were more , they than suited ever tlie in favor temof per Olaf. All classes , had now something" to gain, and something* to n hope oble mor for— e the license peasant . Added more to liberty which , , the the national priest more pride power was grati , the - fied Seeing by the with prospect what of eifect uniting she Norway had intri to the gued Danish up to crown this - point, their Margaret own next provinces arranged , instead that the of again States assembling should meet at separatel Odensee y to in b carry entire on the success discussion . Jutland . This with master its - orders stroke of of nobles policy , was clergy followed , and decision burg y hers, and met the first rest and of voted the , States for followed Olaf; Scania the sent le in of the the same two twent first. -third Thus ; of duly ele 13 cted 76 , and the in little King of was his examp proclaimed father and mother on the , yMay, , , presence solemnly invested with the insignia of royalty. As he was now continued she but { contrived ive years throug of never hout age Queen again all the Margaret to rest relinquish of her was life the nominated to reins exercise of regent a power soverei . , How but gn authority No sooner in Denmark was the , will choice be of seen the hereafter Danish . States made public • , than all the old wars and jealousies broke out afresh. The Princess than Ingeborg Margaret , whose , was son exasperated was older than beyond Olaf, measure and The who , was and herself appealed immediate older to - common an l her y took army father arms cause - ; in the -law in with Counts his , Charles grandson the rest of IV Holstein ; . 's and of cause Germany a , g ; i mindful gantic Albert . armada of of Emperor Sweden old set wron sail assembled gs, for made the coast of Denmark. But Margaret was prepared to fight, and, having contracted an offensive and defensive alliance with the Dukes of the Once Pomerania bitter again Arctic , however , awaited winds , the poured her elements foes down with from did forces battle the north equal for her , and to —once their the angry again own. the seas invaders rose high were to do her defeated service without . Dispersed the striking and destroye of a d blow by storms , and , Margaret disdained to avenge herself on the few who were cast arbitration upon her shores but . as It there was are next no records proposed of to such settle arbitration the dispute extant by , it is supposed , never to have taken place. chief A brief care was season to consolidate of peace now her followed authority , during and secure which the the good Queen will 's of the nation. She reconciled Denmark with the Hanseatic towns, lavished titles and favors upon the nobles, reformed abuses, and made In the 1380 so laws that King respected at Hako nine , died and , the of and government the he child rei Olaf beloved d both succeeded . in Denmark to the crown and Norway , . But Hako years , though age once deposed gne in Sweden, was to the last the legal inheritor\ of that kingdom, and Queen Margaret MAKGAHET OF NORWAY. 15 resolved tliat her son should unite the three great northern empires. Two were already his, and Sweden, the third, must become so at the death of Albert of Mecklenburgh—perhaps sooner, for his Barons were been evident openly . discontent In order , and therefore his incapacit that Olaf y as mi a soverei ht lose gn none had of long his , , g I actual or prospective dominions, the Queen made frequent progresses jj § j proceedings peasants through all and three were nobles , countries of alike course b , y , taking b her y no good means the nature boy acceptable with and her liberality , to and the deli . Swedish g These hting H M D King efeated , who and soon driven advanced back them in 1381 as a pretext he returned for invading to the contest Norway in . i 1383and with the same result. , A sullen armistice ensued. H Albert , , still mortified and uneasy, laid plans of future aggression, Margaret calml nor suspected b , foreseeing and the leffc time storm what to that do must the was rest shortl . brewing In y the occur in meanwhile the in distance Sweden she , ; waited turned while her attention y y, to Scaniawhich her father had mortgaged to the Hanseatic towns for a period , of fifteen years. That term having now and to exp this ired, end she unexpectedl proceeded to y claim presented the restoration herself before of the the province deputies , then sitting at Lubeck, bringing King Olaf with her, and a train of Danish and German nobles. Unwilling as were the mortgagees to part from so valuable a territory, this energetic step left them no honorable alternative, and Queen Margaret returned home with I I the • title-deeds of the province. She then made a progress into § Scania, and, with her son, received the homage of the estates. H Mindful of her favorite policy, and anxious, if possible, to replace jf f jj | ful caused an enemy famil her y by of son a Holstein frien to invest d, , Queen and , Count in Margaret the Gerard year next with 1386 con the , inve ciliated important sted the , or power fief rather of - 1 Sleswick. Historians have blamed the policy -which thus alienated M a wealthy province from the crown; but we question whether, when 1 so blaming, they considered the magnitude of the stake for which j the Margaret concession was . play The ing Counts , or the of circumstances Plolstein had under ever regarde which d she Sleswick made as their legal inheritance, and Count Gerard had long occupied the i m p side lace , the by force nobles , of sympathised arms. He was with powerful him, and , he the had peop justice le loved on him his . H He was a troublesome enemy, but might prove a useful friend. were something, at all events, to purchase his neutrality; and the ilt ambitious need more forbearance than the peacefully disposed. After all, Margaret but staked a province for a kingdom, and won. With regard to the Counts of Holstein, it may be interesting to i observe that from the family of this very Gerard, on the female 1 side, sprang the present royal house of Denmark. | p teen In ye 1387 ars of , King age— Olaf and died had . been Pie sickl was y very from young his — birth scarcel . y He seven was - I succeeded in Norway and Denmark by his mother the Queen-regent. I 16 MARGARET OF NORWAY. Pier enemies accused lier of having poisoned him to gratify lier own deed ambition be difficult , but they in " this were case believed , to assi only gn by any the adequate vulgar. m It otive would for in so - , base and unnatural a deed; but it were easy to show many reasons wh heart prove strong y she d was from affections should closed many , desire and passages st him we her have to of own live . her no . and grounds life In , onl the Margaret first for child believing p . lace was In , aas the woman that ma second y her be of place, King Olaf was again no obstacle to her greatness y . Naturally deli-* cateand almost monastic in his tastes, he had never cared to assume her and any way , Margaret share . in Thirdl the well government y, kne no w "woman how , unwilling and had therefore She ever mi the reigned ht roug could succeed h in not Northmen either in have kin been g would dom in , be to accept her as their sovereign. govercoming the their more prejudices likel. , but Still she in mi the ght face also fail of — these and facts the latter the Norweg was by ian far peasantry persisted y in their , unjust suspicions, and, , as we shall presentl safet y of see the , carried throne their , full credulit fifteen y years to such after a p King itch as Olaf to ' endanger _s death. the Nor y was this the only absurd report circulated at the time. Some said that she had spared his life, but confined him in a solitary p the lace Franciscans whence he coul to d thi never s day escap contend e to clai that m the Olaf crown , being again neither ; and of poisoned heaven nor alone imprisoned , and died , relinquished in the retirement his hig of h estate an Italian for the convent love many No years sooner after were . the tidings of the King's death known in Denmark succession , than . the And provincial now Queen deputies Margaret met 's policy to discuss bore the fruit * que , and stion stood of the her of every clergy in good grade whom service ,— she among . had She the made had noble partisans independent s whom among she , among had the honored representatives the peasantry , among whom she had compassionated. They could not, it is true, relinfew without quish conditions all bring their ing old ; but forward prejudices they some did at elect objections a blow her , nor in and the elect sti end a pulating female , and soverei that for some was gn enoug Danish h. provinces The Scanian then drew deputies up an and act b the y which _representatives they delegated of the the daug supreme le hter loved authority of Waldemar herand to her , the or alone the States mother , not were simp of satisfie Olaf ly because d ; but with " her she because mild was and the the peop, j udicious In Norway government , however .'' , she had some opposition to encounter. More wedded to the customs and traditions of their forefathers than were their neighbours the Danes, these sturdy sons of Odin could with diffition First culty to of make which all they up she required their would minds not that listen to she submit should for a moment to marry a woman . ; but Then th and at they was a forei urged a condi gner her - . MARGARET OF NORWAY. 17 to '' appoint a successor and associate Min with, lier in the cares of than government a year -— was a sti thus _piilation consumed almost in negotiations as distasteful , and as the Margaret first. at More last I _»l consented to name a successor. Determined not to bate one jot of her long midabie power before colleague , , she and now , had possible soug he ht been . , not Her still the sister living most 's , suitable would son Albert scarcel , but had the y have least died been for But not - an young Ingeborg infant _enoLig _'s son daug h named . ht to er satisfy , the Eric Duchess . lier Of love this of Ponaerania of child unpartaken then , was five marr authority ied, and of . had ; , years age, Queen Margaret made choice. She knew that his minority must be long, and so relied on many years of absolute sovereignty: she Loped to educate him in her own views, to mould him to her own ambitions, to rule him while she lived, and to influence his policy I her precepts long after she herself had passed away. Besides all of -which, she was careful to fix his majority for no particular year, and thus reserved the right of reigning alone for just so long a Ihy period as she pleased. Having soothed the Norwegian pride by these concessions, Margaret next found herself at leisure to consider the affairs of Sweden, which were in a very unsettled condition. Oppressed, misgoverned, and discontented, the Swedish nobles were most of them in open rebellion, and in the year 1388 sent a deputation to Norway to enjj I treat appeal military . She had succours for years . The cultivated Queen the was good not op unprepared inion of the for Swede this s I with no other end than to promote their confidence in her protection, |j fanned and had their also discontent , by means . Now of her their agents need , fomented became her their profit fears , and and , m finding it in her power to make conditions, she bargained for the H crown. It were impossible, she argued, and unjust, to spend her II people's blood without some adequate object, or, in short, to hazard m two kingdoms for any stake lower than a third. Eager at all costs | | m act to be of rid transfer of Albert was 's then tyranny drawn , the Swedish in which envoys the Barons consented formall . An up, y H p gaged accepted to Margaret respect the for laws their and Queen defend , and the Margaret liberties , on of her the side country , en- . m j § The authority chief ; towns while , Albert seaports , , who and still fortresses preserved thereupon , some recognised few adherents her , I took arms to defend his throne, and solicited the support of his a relatives, the Princes of Mecklenburgh. His call was forthwith a responded to, not only by this particular house, but by most of the H chief nobles of Germany, who with their followers, nocked at once li to his standard, and placed him at the head of a gigantic ' armyiv Intoxicated with hope and confident of victory, Albert now assumed i the title of King" of Denmark, vowed never again to wear his cap 1 till he had driven Margaret from her dominions, and spoke conii m temp forgot tuousl the courtesy y of her as of " warfare the monarch as to sans send -culottes her a " whetstone He even so many far |l vol. in. c I''18 MARGARET OF NORWAY. feet in length., and accompanied tlie giffc Tby an insulting recommendation to sharpen her scissors and needles upon it, instead of meddling with the sceptres that men only were competent to wield. To these insults the Queen opposed a dignified silence, and despatched her legions by way of reply. The two armies came in sight, shortly after, at a place called Nyckelangen ', near Falcoping in Sweden. King Albert commanded in person on the one side, and Eric Wasa, a brave and experienced Norwegian general, on the other. The Germans came to the field accompanied by all the pomp and panoply of war. Being chiefly young men, hot-headed and over-confident, they fancied they had but to draw their swords and conquer, and boasted that every German would kill two Swedes that day. But Eric Wasa, instead of wasting the precious moments in idle vapouring, hastened to post his troops, so that they were protected by a morass in front and a hill on one side, which was the best position to be had on the ground and rendered him almost invincible. Here he drew up and waited in. order of battle, never supposing, however, that the enemy would dare to attack him at so great a disadvantage. But Albert had been flattered by one Gerard Snakenborg and others of the headstrong youths about his person, till he was almost beside himself with vanity. They persuaded him that he was born to conquer, and, eager as he was for vengeance, he but too readily believed them. Disregarding the warnings of the elder men and urged on by the younger, he then knighted the said Gerard on the field, gave the word to charge, and dashed forward with all his cavalry into the morass. A frightful scene ensued. Encumbered by their, armour, assailed by clouds of arrows, and sinking deeper into the swamp at every step, men and horses were alike panic-stricken, and plunged about in an agony of bewilderment. Seeing this, the rear-guard fell into disorder, and Gerard Snakenborg was the first to fly. The Swedes then rushed in to slay, pursue, and conquer; and Albert, who was running wildly hither and thither, was taken captive, as well as his son, Prince Erik, and the chief nobles of his staff. "Alas! old man," said the unhappy King, meeting one of those •who had warned him in the morning, and who was now a prisoner like himself, " had I but heeded thee! Had I but heeded thee! " It was now Margaret's turn to triumph, and triumph she did, to the uttermost. Worthier of her greatness would it have been had she scorned to return insult for insult, and spared the captive though she despised the King. But the age was still barbarous, and even lier natural magnanimity was not proof against prosperity. Being then at Lodose, she caused the prisoners to be brought before her in fetters, and greeted them with bitter mockeries. Among other practical jokes, she reminded Albert of his arrogant vow, and, as he had not yet achieved the right to wear his hat, caused a gigantic fool's-cap to be placed upon his head, and so exposed him to the 1 . MAEGAKET OF NOB WAY. 19 9 S to ridicule a illar of in the Roeskilde people. Cathedral * This , done where , she it liad may tlie be seen whetstone to this nailed day; m and p sent both father and son to the Castle of liindholin in Scania, j j . where they remained for seven years. ji m _care not H voluntaril to ' w s ever authority , not elected even throug her this hout at great Sweden the first victory . Those held established out districts for Albert Queen which to Mar had the - § m 1 last. Anarch y and civil warfare followed , . Whole towns fell into the hands of the y Germans, and whole provinces were laid waste by | H j their shiinfested mercenaries the . coasts Robber and fortresses anchored in sprang the harbours up on . land Pillage . Pirate and m m outr ps age were the order of , the day. The fields were left untilled; the jj crops Swedish failed historian ; and the ' 6 one land could became easil a desert find . an " hundred At this time," says who a m , y yeomen !| _JJ m inutilit remn together "Wearied ant y of did of their of not suffering possess adherence Albert , half ' long s to a ing an ton undeserving for of at peace barley , , th and or prince sent a convinced load , in the of their wretched hay of . sub " the - f m | mission, and King Margaret became partisans absolute in leng Sweden. She then took 1 measures for the re-establishment of order ; concluded a treaty with i |f | exterminate the Duke of d Me the cklenburg Baltic pirate ; procured s ; and the rest withdrawal ored prosperity of the and Ge safet rmans y t6 ; * HP H son the country and the . Queen Albert fixed then his sued ransom for his at own sixty libert thousand y and silver that marks of his 8 m — agreed about , to £10 advance ,500 Eng for lish him money , taking . This the sum city the of Hanseatic Stockholm towns for |J he security was , set and free so . , in the year 1395, after seven years' imprisonment, H | H f her Thus womanhoo , at fort d y-three and her years wisdom of age , , Queen while yet Margaret in the achieved plenitude the of l M | enemies highest point banished of all anarch her greatness establishe ; d and order , having and overborne subdued her the m ij be prejudice absolute , s of and those undisputed who were y, soverei hostile gn to of her the rule three , , came great at king length doms to 1 of the North. m (To be concluded in our next.) m I1 if * " A That cap had ..she full caused fifteen set on ells his in he breadth ad, ; The peak was nineteen good ells long." ¦• m US Mecldenburgh Rhyme Chronicle_. 1 M _TOL. in. c2 (20) III.—LIVERPOOL _INSTITUTION FOR, THE TKAININGAND EMPLOYMENT OF NURSES.* BY THE EET. J. S. _HOWSON, _M.A., Principal of the Liverpool Collegiate Institution. , -SS3- Women's Work,—how to find new industrial employments for women, how to make more use of tlieir taste and skill in the province of art, how to educate them more usefully for domestic duties, how to reap the full benefit of their willing* service in all the fields of charity,—this comprehensive subject is much discussed everywhere. It will doubtless be discussed, year by year, in the meetings of this Association, and, we may confidently say, not without practical results. of If the any sick thing . What in the can -whole our -world h is and women awkward 's work hands , it is t our he nursin clum g solicitude, our restless impa roug tience , , accomplish for those , who are sy suffering from accidents or disease ? And what can not be accomplished by the tact and tenderness, the good sense, the promptitude, the patient endurance, of women ? We all know the experience and the testimony of our own homes. But what are we to say of the sick and their nurses, when we look beyond our domestic circles, and scrutinise society at large ? It would be a narrow interpretation of that great charter of woman's office in the world, viz,., that she is " a help meet for man,"—for great it is to render that tolerable, which would otherwise be a burden too heavy to bear,—it would be a narrow interpretation to limit the words merely to the relation of marriage. ness Surel and y their its alleviations scope is far . wider But . I am We bold are now to speaking that not onl onl y of sick ht - the wife to be " a help meet" for her husband say in his times ofy weak oug - ness and suffering, but that woman, in the community at large, ought to have every facility, and everything that training and sympathy and organization can effect, in enabling her to discharge her blessed commission, and to do, everywhere and well, that work whicli she alone can do. But what provision has really been made in England for the full liberty and efficiency of those powers of relief which exist in what has been called " the feminine element of society?" We are all in some degree aware of the defects of our hospital nursing, and of the aggravations of trouble which are often experienced, not only in the families of the poor but even in those of the wealthy, when they are visited by grievous sickness. It would be a waste of time to enter into the details of that which no one doubts. I find the whole matter well expressed in a paper which was circulated many years ago in Liverpool. The paper is headed, " Society for the Education of Nurses" and its contents are as follows :— " It has long been a subject of regret to those who are conversant ciation * A paper for the read Promotion in the He of alth Social . Section Science at the , second meeting of the Asso- THE TRAINING AND _EMPLOYMENT OF NURSES. Si with the details of sickness, tliat a most inadequate or unfit provision is made for _tlie necessary attendance on the _siifferer, the administration of remedies, and _sucli alleviation of pain as may I result from care and tenderness directed by t/ experienced -A- skill. The poor are entirely without professed nurses; even the rich, are, in many instances, consigned to the negligence of an ignorant or unfeeling nurse. The amount of misery which is thus occasioned is such as would astonish if it were known. 46 That the misery is not irremediable may be made evident; and by those to whom it has been so evidenced it is believed that a practical remedy may be obtained: " tliat remedy they are now seeking to find and apply. " An association is formed, whose object is to provide nurses in every way qualified to minister to the comforts of the sick. Tliese will be persons of religious principle and habits, carefully selected from Christians of all denominations, holding' the fundamentals of I Christianity. They will be educated in the hospitals; during the M 'course of such education they will be resident in a house belonging : | &lt; j |j committee to examination the associ . ation They from , time will under carry to the time out control and testimonials thei of a r matron conduct renewable and in the a by visiting various actual ? jH |f scenes of their future employment , will be subject to the inspection M or inquiry of the committee who recommend them. m " The design of this association is to extend itself so that in time m its objects may be attained generally throughout the kingdom : with m which view subscriptions will be soug\ht generally from the first. m p Its of the actual public operations Infirmary will (and commence other medical in Liverpool establishments , under the ) ausp of that ices J9 town. m " The purport of the present notice is to solicit the attention of inijffl dividuals to the subject thus brought before them, to request their II support hy pecuniary assistance if the plan be such as they shall 11 approve, and to invite them to the first general meeting of the 9 friends of the Institution, on Wednesday, the 2 5th instant, at the m Savings' Bank, Bold Street, at 12 o'clock, when the _execiitive details If of the measure will be arranged. m , " The names of the gentlemen who have attended at meetings % li already held for the purpose of preliminary arrangements are—VfljnfiJ ' m De. Renwick, Rev. W. Rawson, ' m ]B De De . . Beandeeth Bbtggs, , Rev Rev. . Jo C. sir J. . Swains J. Horn ok by , , a Dr. Traii_/l, Chas. Lawrence, Esq., S Mr. Bickersteth, Jas. Cropper, Esq., M Mr. Batty, . John Moss, Esq., m Rev. A. Campbell, Adam Hodgson, Esq., m Rev. R. P. Bxjddicom, Wm. Jones, Esq." H This paper may really be taken as the remote origin of the M Liverpool Institution for the training and employment of nurses. I 22 THE TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT OF NURSES. cannot learn tlie exact date of the paper ; but, from the names which the thirty are appended Instit years ution ago , it in ,— is L D clear evonshire e., not that onl it y Square long must - , before have London been the , ( establishment circulated 1840,) and about St of . Fliedner John's House 's operations , (1848 at ,) Kaiserswerth but even before , and the the foun beg ding inning of the of Pastor House of Deaconesses in Paris. It seemed to me due to those who pointed out the road which has now been followed, to mention the document with But this the particularity road, though . pointed out, was not really travelled immefound amidst diately possible . discussion Many ; and years and , like difference elapsed many other before of useful any inion undertakings practical . The first , steps this definite began were movement came from a conversation earl op y in 1855 between the late Mr. Bickerstethwhose professional skill and Christian excellence will the long author be remembered of the , document , (and who above , I believe quoted, , ) was and more Dr. Bay than lee any of Birken one else - headwhose enthusiasm and ability are always ready for works two organizing whether op , inions of an charit came institution y or prominentl difficult having y. y for into In the its more view obj discussions ect as ecclesiastical the to better the which best nursing the followed mode other of of , working more the sick free . in : One according the suggested institution to one method , plan were was the to hig be her educated functionaries ladies , , , actuall giving y full of voluntary work y chosen done service as and to ; character the other received and provided fitness . The , simp but two l acting y types for paid are on the foun nurses princi d in , car the p e le - two above-mentioned wages London institutionsand I think it could not be such otherwise were the than case a here blessing also. to There this town is ab , and undant its room neighbourhoo in Liverp d ool if and Birkenhead for two such institutions; and perhaps the time when we shall see them here. Meantime one has been systems established may come ,—i , . since e., with the arrangements latter part of not 1855 by , on any the means second rig of idly the eccle two - This siastical is the , and institution providing of onl which y for I the hold services the third of nurses Report who in my are hand paid . . The end and aim of the Institution is stated very explicitly in this la document want constantly (pp. 3, felt 4.) , both " It is by intended medical , men in the and first by p friends lace, to of sup the - may p sick y , be of good thoroug and hly competent relied on nurses . It , is whose also intended character to and afford conduct the relief of kind and careful attention, at a comparatively low rate, to in those more who affluent are unable circumstances to pay the and sum expected in the third from place others , to grant who the are services of the nurses gratuitousl ; y to , the poor, in cases where the a committee small sum have would good be reason more than for believing the means that of the the patient payment were of even able "to bear. ITHE TRAINING AND _EMPLOYMENT. OP NUKSBS. 23 I ' Tlie concerns of the institution are managed by a small executive S committee o£ ladies. The general committee consists of twelve m A gentlemen matron , of four course of whom resides are in the medical house, men which , and is the four home clergymen of the . S B H nurses I believe when I they shall are serve not the engaged on of service the Association . best, not by M B which entering either into in the minute involve details a general of , the but purpose princi institution by noticing ple or have one and or I been will two notice found main points to them be M jS II P in important of The the obtaining desultory main hindrance a sufficient order history in to which number complete they of success suggest nurses ; has themselves of lain reall in y the excellent . difficult and y m m approved and doubtless character this . is The wise standard policy taken , to mention by the no committee other ground is high of ; m m m that been caution those found . But who necessary of are those sent to who from reject present the many institution . themselves The committee should for accep be would so tance trul be , y it g and has lad § j H 1 | trinities undoubtedl at least , it be is y of requisite reli sp g iritual ious, that use that full to they confidence the mi patients ght, according should whom be they to placed attend their in oppor ; their but - | j m || honesty toxication is needless This point , integrity is to so of speculate sobriety , and sobriety here is, connected as on we . the all with reasons know sick , a wh - very nursing y a serious tendency . The one fact to . in It is - m m undoubted. Nor frequentl need y I say anything of the neglect thus caused M _M . minent through mention falling asleep of this , and point of for other the sake inevitable of noticing evils. a rule I make by which prol II | this certain institution amount of is beer distinguished or porter in families from is allowed . those Here in in the the London home seventh , . and There rule when is a H _M the worded nurses thus are :—" engaged When in attendance upon patients, nurses may M B respectfull malt li y ask and for tea, coffee t on the , or express cocoa, but recommendation not for wine, of sp a irits medi , or - m the cal man home quor , neither ." ; It would wine , excep , malt seem li to quor me , nor that sp this irits is are a wise to be rule allowed ; but in I U m am here to state factsrather than to express opinions. m H S possibility unsatisfactory To these of remarks losing nurses good on , , oug the nurses ht possibility perhaps . A famil sensible , without to y be may of added due be her so care usefulness a grateful , word of accepting on for as the the to 8 1 tempt services her of one away of from the bod the y and institution In fact so by the and prospect labor of be hi , spent gher i I in wages training or other an advantages excellent housekeeper . money for those who are may in affiuent I I circumstances of the nature . of that All that waste we (if can waste say it of is such ) which cases must is, be that expected they are in i I I who such the prosecution prefer cases are mercantile not of any inore promotion Christian surprising work to than the . work To the take loss of an a of schoolmaster obvious pupil-teachera parallel . , , 24 THE TBAINING AND EMPLOYMENT (XF NUKSES. receive or of Anotlier partiall presents s the y . subject gratuit payment The ous institution which for . their All deserve this pays services s is careful the most , excep nurses expressl attention t when , and y they is the pointed the are institution question wholl out, y I believein the regulations alike of the two London institutions and private of this , : pecuniary and the nurses remuneration sign a . promise There is that obviousl they y will a difficulty not receive inher One ent thing in this seem part s clear of the , that arrangements patients or , however their friends it may are be cul adjusted pable, if . under such circumstanceswhether from gratitude or carelessness? be they and "wished that persuade the that consequences nurses a higher to self accep , - of denial t trifling clandestine were with present gratuities what in seem acts . of It little generosity is much things to , f were or ins more tance carefull , who si y gn considered a promise . that In the they ease will of not our receive railway _grattiities porters _, ? it is no light matter to undermine their sense of truth because we are good natured or dislike to be thought shabby. character sional One training point for of becoming of great the nurses importance admirable . Many is in what their who calling may have be , present every called capacity the themselves profes of - without any special experience. Such experience and training can either only be by had bring in ing hosp the itals hosp . ital This to may the nurses be manage ' institution d in , two or by ways taking ,— hosp the nurses ital an to essential the that hosp part some ital of ; the of in institution the other nurses words itself undertake , either , as at Kai hy the s making erswerth work of a , The or attending by latter providing the course patients has in been an existing followed hosp in ital the , or arrangement some of its recentl wards y . entered into between the sisters of St. John's House and King's was realised College printed after Hosp on many ital the in subject difficultie London in , s, 1856 where as any and remarkable one 1857 may . see Plere success who , in reads the has Liver what been - pool Institution, is undoubtedly a weak point at present. During the allowed time b of their the authorities probation, to which attend last the s two wards months of the , the Royal nurses Infir are - and y thereunder the direction of the official nurses, to be present orders mary, of at the operations surgeons , . and It learn is thoug by ht experience that at present how heart to execute -burnings the ing might to be learn the result that the of a medical closer connection gentlemen . It of is the , however infirmary , gratif have ytion always . Indeed expressed when their serious satisfaction operations with have the been nurses in of prospect the institu , their - , services have been engaged for weeks previously. train But ing the school hosp . ital Our oug _hosjntal ht not nursing to be itself spoken in of this here country simp is ly much as a in _lished need that of improvement is desirable. . But It it may is to be be long hoped * before that the all time is accom , is not - p distant when the robbing of patients in our hospitals, or the getting1 I THE TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT OF NURSES. 25 B of drink for them by tlie nurses, will be unheard-of enormities. S One indirect effect of really good hospital nursing ought never to H be forgotten. The poor would themselves be taught how to nurse _II by what they experience in the Infirmary, and thus a blessing of B untold value would be communicated to the households of the less m favored classes. 9 Here the question •will naturally be asked,—How far have the ii poor been really served by this institution ? how far has it really §| supplied gratuitous nursing ? In giving the answer, it must be S remembered that there are two classes of what may be called 9 gratuitous nursing. Some of those who do not seem poor are in M fact the poorest. There is no truer charity than to afford skilful 11 §£ means and patient are straitened attendance . , The in times professed of sickness intention , to of families meeting whose such wants as these is common to this establishment and to the London institutions. This is a sufficient reply to the objection that in the case before us, subscriptions have been obtained from the rich for the purpose of providing nurses for the rich. But again, similar assistance has been afforded, without any payment at all, to those who are in actual poverty. In the first Report express mention was made 1 of strictly gratuitous assistance afforded to the poor. From the § Jj || have third been Report atten (p. ded 5) I gratuitousl quote the y, followin extending g sentence over thirteen :—"Three weeks cases , in M addition to visits to poor people made by the nurses during the time |1 of their residence in the home, and when their services have not m been required elsewhere;" and I believe I am quite correct in m stating that at the close of the current year it will be found that |J more than thirty weeks of such attendance will have been given m ¦ M during Thus the I think twelvem a case onths has . been made out for the continued support _fc which is afforded by subscriptions and donations. Still, the institum M tion and not will onl not y self thoroug -supporting hly realise , but its so idea far beyond till it is the self point -supporting of self 1 , | | support as to be available largely for the poor. It is interesting and U important to notice every step towards this position of self-support, ' 1 for the domestic expense requisite for twenty nurses would not be 1 much increased for forty. At present the case stands thus for the I three years which have elapsed since the opening of the Institution. 1 1855. 1856. 1857. i No. of nurses (excluding probationers) 6 10 18 I Subscriptions and donations . .£275 £125 £62 I Nurses' receipts £48 £275 £488 B In the present year, the nurses' receipts will probably reach the 9 sum of about £600.* This shows a satisfactory advance in IS the earnings of the Institution, and this side of the question is | i H I don about * ations The £600 _rejDorts and and the of £1700 recei St. pts John . were 's House _respectivel show y a about similar £1100 history and . £800 In , 1856 in 1857 the 26 THE OLD CHATEAU. understated, for (though, a bargaining spirit has in some instances to "been recognise exhibited the , unworth benefits y they of those have received who could ) it well must afford be added gratefull that y some of the donations are the result of gratitude for service—so that really there is much ground for encouragement and good reason sho stitution for This uld continued is not to by great come support no means from distances . a a dist local . ance There question . is Th . no ere Nurses reason is every go wh from y reason donations this wh In y - undertakings organization sympathy in adapted such elsewhere a for work — such and should communication this Association travel far of and seems sympathy promote precisel , and similar y such the impulse to efforts for the relief of the sick. TV.—THE OLD CHATEAU. , ~_-_*p&gt;-~ Paced Th&amp;ottgkh Grabrielle : these close-cut alleys At her sidein ro ; yal pride, Henri bon et bel. Dost Ah! thou my lo love ve across me as the well sea ! , ** On such an Autumn night _L Fell ong the years shadows ago, on the meadows A Of ll t along his old the Cha gabled teau ; roof The moonlight lay like snow. S Trembling O he f hop wou e l and d w with ai fears t by a , world this old gate " " While Watching he rode thro' from her tears Paris , streets, Unguarded by Ms peers. Heas he came riding on, Knew , full well Where she stood , outside this wood ; Many How she a song loved doth this tell knightly King, .La charmante _Gfabrielle ! Clash and clang of swords S Soon hrine dies d away t in , a le's heart Love lives apar alway; peop Gabrielle France will D' not Estrees forget I this name, B. K. P.. (27) V.— STILL LIFE. 1 A PASTORAL. tlie The general village rule of Upp , it does ing in the ham not land is boast . a very You great small will tilings find place , it being , somewhere but as , contrary modest on the to a little south- village east coast . as an if y search diligently, but we warn you it must be a diligent search you , for it is undoubtedly as retired a spot as the I veriest recluse could desire. jj j H | near life Our , l whil y all state e the at is the advantages an same enviable time of one modern we , for enj we oy improvements reap (thanks all the to blessings our and the iron of London roads rural ) for pronounceable luxuries the last of a three railway names weeks , , hooped a , local under paper petticoats the specious , plent , and y of plea a flowers daguerreot of taking with yp long our ist like who un - - nesses, has been quietly pocketing our money and distorting our faces. At the time of our first acquaintance with Uppingham it might have rather containe an under d ei than ght hundred an over inhabitants statement. , But thoug the h perhaps truth is that , that is , I 1 m | happy state of and semi contented -barbarism as ( the awful villager to contemp s then late were , thoug , their h s remarkabl was such y a 1 pleasant as a matter of every-day life) that it makes it a very difioLm fj lation cult matter . For for thoug us h to the be certain census was on the taken subj soon ect of affcer our we rural came popula , and - | | _|9 the fully records searched of , all and reg we isters gave , both a true parochial and particular and private account , were of care our - ii _I 1 vines occupations ages, and honorabl , our thoug walls h y we declared and carefull olive our y branches counted rank, calling and around dul , y our or numbered professional tables, the yet M truth compels upon us to confess that the result of all our calculations, m confessions, and registrations, was never published in the village, so m that our numerical force was never perfectly known, except to the M collectors of the census tables and to certain antiquated divers into 11 II most the abyss sincerel of y parliamentary hope no great reports surprise ,—after will which be felt exp at lanation our extreme we 11 ignorance on this interesting point. m Wellbe the state of the population what it may, every one 11 allows th , at our village is the quaintest, quietest, cleanest nest of I houses for many miles round. Neither is it devoid of beauty, for 1 wood the houses -work b frosted eing ancient here and are nearl there y with all gabled whitewash and interlaced and stand with in H I such nooks , and crooksand at such angles (anything , but right 1 I not angles for you the may reason be sure of ) , that London we should surveyor tremble who for the contemp temper lated , if , any "¦ ¦ "" —- 28 _STILIi I/_EFE. j the right, tlie swelling 1 and ¦undulating' meadows that slope down to | the water, the old ballast wharf running* out into the river, which I makes such a sweep by us that it forms a miniature bay, the empty | chalk pits where so many of our _cottagers dwell, the grand old mi Roman road with the red sand banks on either side, down whose 8 dusty path many a legion has tramped and many a happy pilgrim j| sauntered,—what with Holmwood to the left, and the strange tower- H like castle set upon the hill, with its still stranger light gleaming" H like some spectre name from the very verg_*e of the horizon, it would J be possible to go farther in search of the picturesque and fare M worse. ' jj "We, that is I and my brother, have lived a great many years at m Uppingham,—not all our lives, for until the death of our mother our |f home was at Crowhurst,—a fine old farm which looked (as indeed f| was true) as if somebody's grandfather lived there still. g| Our house stood on a hill, and was surrounded, at least on three fj sides, hy fruit trees planted by my great-grandfather. I see it now m as clearly as if I had been there yesterday. For miles round | | do not believe there was such a yard as ours. There was a pond in m the front of the house near the road, and two great trees, elms, if M I recollect rightly, grew by its side ; so that the ducks and geese, ' m a mighty cackling brood whose exact number nobody ever cared to p know, luxuriated in shelter during the hottest summer days. The m barns were brown with age and full to repletion, too fall | indeed half to please us when we fancied a game at hide and seek or |j follow my leader; and it was an undisputed fact that our waggons m carried the best barley, the finest wheat, and the earliest vegetables m to market. _fgf I am an old woman now, quietly going the way of all the earth | . My first grey hairs came twenty years ago, so you may guess by that 1 my time is well nigh come. The weakness that loves to ruminate U over the past you understand and will pardon-—tne aged ever love I to moralise on the changes, be they ever so few, in which they have ff . played a part. I Just now I am thinking of my first sorrow. I was down late | that morning ; Nancy had neglected calling us, I know now how | busily she was engaged : but when I did get up the sun was high in I the heavens, and the strong light streaming* into my little window, 1 making the room unpleasantly close. I had overslept myself, that | was very certain; but, child as I was, I remember that I neither I cried nor called for help, but commenced, and after many failures j completed dressing* myself, upon which I hastened into the parlor I overlooking the lawn, where breakfast was spread, the chairs I placed, and the room empty. The loaf had been cut, and a large J cup which grandfather always used was half full of cold tea ; I father's plate and William's were both clean, and the place | was very quiet. It was all strang'e : I crept slowly up to my mother's 1 door, but as it was shut I went away, for I knew she was ill, and it I 1 29 STILL LIFE. 1 • Ii i was Then against I wandered the rule into for the me kitchen to "be : with the doors , lier I unless went were back all she open sent to the , for the p me fire ar¬ . I il I nearl lor all , in and y the ou amused t, orchard and no myse : Nancy the lf . long by to watching white "be found ladders the ; so farm stood laborers by sorted t . he T t and hey rees we care , the re - I 1 men fully " packed were busy it in picking baskets the ¦w fruit ith, fern , whi leaves le the were or women straw out in for perfection the market , so . I I were covered "Wha the t w a lilies ith glorious yellow ; the day lavender stone it was crop was : and the just roses crimson budding snap ,and -dragon the but wa . ll I Is do never were not | I know whether it was because bees I as stood I saw watching on that so long day , flying in and | remem out the ber rows to seeing the of little mint so gate many , mar at joram the bottom , and th of yme the that garden bordered I . At ec the t leng so path th off I leading with grew first my tired doll of I watching started I met , to , was and breakfast tired grandfather of upon waiting sitting gooseberries too alone sus in and p the currants ; irl porch and , . The patted and when my person I head told . him I believe my troub we les sat shadows , there he bade the on me best the be lawn part a good of when that g Nancy day; a came t least runnin I know father g into there was the were kneeling porch long and by carried her side me and into weep mother ing over 's room one , wh hand the ere post which my of the he held bed, in and both my of mother his. seemed "William of her the , too onl , was which y ca leaning lm were pe rson upon dark in the like room mine . , her I recollect smile when the bri I g came htness in at the the door eyes illow , , and when how Nancy I patted held her shining hair as it lay strewn across p me down to kiss her. and how the long the regular How bed- strange swell room of window it the all soft seemed annoyed heavy in me air that . which to It twitter dim was stirred room quite for , the many a relief curtains a bird "when above built the its swallows nest disturbed _\_inder beneath if the she the shelter could eaves hel of began p our it. roof And ; mother so, , while would it was house never yet in have day the , one my city young not made mother with went hands home , an that d my to she the father was many taken dwelling mansioned from onl the y upon evil to his come own , went great ing as sorrowing loss one , and having forgetting I down no remember hope the vale and this refusin of years my g , earl to even be y introduction comforted to his grave . to , mour sorrow npattern so Strange vividl of y, that and the that paper can mem upon ory the (capricious walls bowed , the instinct position and !) barred can of paint the with bed the strong , very and the irons size for of our the — safety window black , and vine , which covered whose was partly downy l with eaves, a in creeper conjunction and — partl with y with a that pin it , a afforded vine should , fail a me to innocent recall amusement even one solitary for many incident an hour blank in , . the and spot next yet in twelve years of my life,, which would be a perfectly 30 STILL LIFE. anecdotes my existence innum if it erable liad — not some been , we for are old bound Nancy to confess , who abounded , not greatl in y customs to our . credit—concerning* our infantile prattle, appearance, and the At im sixteen age of , my being mother * a tall , who girl was for universall my age, y and allowe generall d to y have declared been taug a beautifal ht me all woman the , mys I suppose teries of I needlework was not bad of looking which . she Nancy methods mistress * , of instructed making me preserves how to , wines keep , house and , pastry and the ; while most approved father was whenhis day's work was done, regularly heard me read my and in- , during spected his my absence sums and ; I copy never -book Trent , which to school I never , and failed never to , had prepare any young' companions. Crowhurst was an isolation, its master was the William same; and , who he was expected many his years children my senior , or at , did least go his to daug school hter a — sort for father of M agricultural y life stood at that aloof college time frora in was Yorkshire his on nei the — hbours whole to follow happy (neither his , examp for he thoug le nor . , h my trivial man mother , and question had I never any , or near remember of relations interrupting being ) no g afraid his one most could of asking serious call * him him a the itations gloomy most my years of and a as woman older nothing than as *, constant to herself our mind and I consider , free is so intercours valuable these e in with earl forming a good the cog man character many ; blessed. , my y days as peculiarly was I believe the one my only mother subject was on an which orphan I and . I say father believe h , because tacit this she woman sent her was , never ; maiden a moreover great conversed reader name , I . fancy , which for I , know besides that stood from for some in the Nancy fifty days my that odd in volumes she which , was y she all a bear p live ious con d - - between ing the windows, , Nancy and I discovere our d parlor , one spring on the when shelves we less valuable were and busy inexhaustible treasure over the to annual me fund —whose turn of speculation - contents out, two supp large and lied information boxes me with of books . an Mil end —a - - Bunyan lines ton, and are , B Dryden nearl axter y , , the and as blessed famili Shakespeare ar Edwardes to me , I k as now and the h the y words heart heavenl , of their inspiration Lei glorious ; have been my constant companions for , the last half century y ; g a hton few , novels meagre of histories questionable , a better tendency choice , comp of leted biographies store , . and This five was or the six agents food on in which preventing my mind stagnation chiefly fed and , and pollution these my of old feeling volumes 1 and the under grand - standing. My field of observation was limited in the extreme_* I knew be thing caught of life by from communication actual experience with , the except farm such laborers glimpses , their as mi wiv g no ht es - STILL LIFE. SI and children. Bonny and I knew all the cottages and their Inhabitants for five miles round, one of my privileges being to carry ( wine, herbs, new milk, and other dainties to the sick, and bear my father's weekly allowance to the old men who were past work, to which I added, for my own gratification, a gossip with their wives. We were ten miles from the Hall, and Lady Leigh, though she lived nearly all the year at her country residence, rarely came over to Crowhurst more than once in the season, when she regularly complimented my father on my appearance, presented me with some elegant little nick-nackery, partook of our strawberries and cream, for both of which we were famed, and carried home a large bundle of lavender which she would insist was better than any they grew at ( on Lei my gh. stay I believe ing with I was her for a favorite a week. with She my was lad kind y, who to once me after insisted her |§ house own fashion (I fancy , but they her came ladyshi rather p having unexpectedl other visitors y) found stay me ing rather in the a burden, for the young ladies objected to my sitting at table with them, and her ladyship, who carried a strong wiH of her own, and a hot temper too, complied with a very ill grace to their request, and banished me to the housekeeper JL.'s room. So I felt ill at ease all the time I was there, and nothing would ever induce me to accept I a second invitation ; besides I did not care to leave my father for so long a time, and Nancy was growing in years, and we were just then about having Joe Watts' girl come into the house to be trained for a maid to take Nancy's place. When I recall the days of my early life, a kind of dreamy, misty quietness creeps over me,—a somewhat indescribable feeling which must be placed higher than contentment, but which could scarcely I be called happiness. The shadowy past arises from her grave of 1 buried years, and marches on for my inspection, not wrapped it is I true in the funereal robes of multiplied vexations and repeated H j m failures neither sympath , clear y, neither and nor love dark is , but she her her radiant image face with indeed is shrouded the is gems the in face of a li hop of ght e, which action but is , 1 surely her feet are weary ; and worn , , and , the long trailing peace garment , I of silence, endeavors, but in vain, to conceal them. Seed time and 1 harvest, day and night, do not return more regularly than my If duties ebbed and flowed for many, many years. Immediately one I work was completed another commenced, which in its turn was no I _sooner finished than that gave place to a new occupation. Not that I I had more work than I knew how to manage, and to manage with I easeor that I wished to be idle. My father planned all my I I performances invariabl , y repaid , inspected my exertions them with after praise they . were Every comp thing leted I under , and - I took satisfied him ; nevertheless I remember lying awake of a night, I and thinking where it would all end—this everlasting work, work, I work. I must have been about eight and twenty when this question iI first flitted across my mind. How angry I was with myself. What 1 32 _STIIX LIFE. I troubles buried a foolish my at thoug head the ht same under I argued time the . , clothes as But I tossed such , in , the suggestions and vain turned hope , were and of twisted not bury , alas ing | | , , and to m of be dismissed that night so onl summaril y, "were y ; spent and niany in the hours vain of hop that e of nig solvin ht, and g the not H jj problem. I know not now to what conclusions I came thenor 11 but after I what do know fashion I I clang staunched with the these desp first eration wounds of of despair the tempter to | , the , §§ remembrance of my mother's death, albeit it was like embracing a m cross How and lonel presenting y and how one lingering 's self afresh were to the the hours scourgers . " Would . to God H j| my that mouth it were . morning " "Watchman ," was , what the cry of of the my nig heart ht?_" if said not I the , " words Watch of - f f| | inquiry man, what , and of save the the night loud ?" beating But no of answer my heart was , vouchsafed which, reproached to my | Jg j me for the impiety of my desire as I lay and longed to dare to wish M west that Morning , I the mig white ht came die, clouds , no calm sound , wen sunny fell t lazil , upon and y fresh sailing my , listening the across wind ear the blew . heavens out of , the the ' m j ;j § § young birds once again chirped from their nests, the roses clustered H across and covered the walls, the lilies bent their bursting blossoms if after over the the other old like lavender so bushes humble , and but the inexorable old duties came one for ij nine their o allotted _'clock broug portions ht two ; many six , and o'clock so on introduced till night one ended , seven pensioners the another scene. , _^ jf j deli ideas I longed ht , a . , new absolutel face; y even longed a for new a change duty would , any change have been ; I wanted | hailed fresh with p j g I and submission Five like mor some , e but years mendicant of inward passed pil , tumult grim a miniature too and proud rebellion eternit to . confess y of Still quiet his no outward change poverty | ! - Jj jj and and and recrossed burdened too weak thi with to s bear Sahara miany privation difficulties of my without life . , oppressed intense with suffering many , I crossed doubts | | j| and days I sure would of your , it say is life He to ! myself who be recon hath sometimes ciled spoken , be , and " calm Well Himself , be , you still will hath , it live done is here aH it ordered ; all " so the | I I f _* would was patient come child bubbling and but heroic above up all for more of a while furiousl , but y b than y and ever by . the The old sig question ht of. a | ** f • tears young to my , eyes; it was clear th a at young for me mother were the , would melanchol always words bring | 1 tici spoken all was , indeed " Write a thi dreary s one word childless . When all the my days father of her died life , . (you " Ah . see y ! I that an | - | then should pated I be consoled my , the sorrow last mys state ,) elf yes . would , " when It was indeed he good was be to gone worse be , childless how than utterl the , yes y first , alone was , but it I | | .$ not any, a if great one, , of a tremendous these little ones responsibilit should turn y to be aside a mother from the ? good What old if | J STILL LIFE a 33 that paths I of was their glad forefathers no youn , g " so chi I ldren said, were until t at o climb length u I p almost on my fancied knees and kiss my eyes ; but surely I could not have been altogether convinced And , so or e noiselessl lse what need as the of drift further weed cavilling floats down ? the stream into I the very bosom , of the y ocean itself, the years passed on. True the cottagers' lives glided away as quietly as mine, but there was this ! to difference laborand between to love us was , that their to me fair was portion allotted alone life . and Adown labor, the -—to fields live, , me across t the the , young meadows men , and lingerin the maiden g about s, and the porch I knew , or without in the listening barns, I tion that have they sang chanted the without everlasting chorus rehearsals which for genera the tion last after six thousand generame years me no no ; villa crazed but ge for or or me melanchol provincial no Jacob any Petrarch kni offered ht wandered his dedicated seven across years his l the of yre desert s , ervitude because plains , to of y g of Palestine It were well , or dared " I cried the in briny the bitterness wave. of heart" to love and I lose " to forfeit the , affection, to bury the beloved my one, , to crush the | M jj l hope commenced ove , , , and " in to shor be so t i loved it t has seemed again closed as . , if sad But any , silen t even hing t, thi would and s was alone be denied be . tt Many er me than , years and never as hav li t fo e e | | fj now passed sometimes since these sundry dreamings questionings first haunted still me, arise but, old conc as erning I am, even this i p buried When subject I was . about seven and thirty, my father died, full of years, a i a as good he had man lived and an leanin honorable, whom marm all but loved he and never resp knew ected ; and he died now , J never can know , , how sorel g upon y my y woman , 's heart panted under , the | j Jj | 1 member on burden (travellers that . side it In on was of the the the a hi little calm g chancel h road church autumn can where yard see day the at both when Lei elder ,) g we we h, grows buried close carried out by my him of the father to the sun his . turret - long I dial re- , , I I I the home stirred grass ; , the and , for mist thoug the lay h air the low was paths over heavy the were and fields strewn still , and , with no the t a chestnuts leaves branch lay o and fdam any berries p tree on I* of the mountain ash, so that the crimsoned ground told wherever our I I . their melanchol pattering y cortege the whole had passed time , we yet were none there fell . and He disturbed descende us d with into I the stand grave that , and he was then veril , ah! and and * not indeed till then taken , did and we that believe we remained or under- . I Remained for what ? All y ! that was the questi , on. Would the pro-I I blem of life ever be solved in this world ? we asked, as we traced and | I re- How traced long in imag the s ination ervice seemed one solution ,—how for strange its difficulties to have after an another arm to . | | I was my lean father with upon me , to would in be my supported have great been trouble instead could ! of he being only have the supporter known that ,—how William glad I _vol. in. d .'i ¦a I 34 HOW TO _UTILIZE THE POWERS OF WOMEN, I You may be sure I liad no need to remain at the farm after niy father I was gone, and certainly I had no wish to live alone in such a large jjf house ; so in the following spring I came over to Uppingham, and f| took a small cottage overlooking the river, where I brought old m Nancy, Joe Watts and his daughter, Bonny and my mother's books, M my father's arm-chair, and sundry favorite pieces of furniture ; IB and the homestead is now let to some nice comfortable people, who f| manage on the whole to do justice both tome and to themselves. J By degrees I became acquainted with my neighbours, but the old p habits were strong and I found friendship to be a plant of slow f| growth, so that the next three and twenty years of my life were §| passed in almost as great seclusion as the days buried at Crow- |j hurst,—at the end of which time, William wrote to say that his |f health and strength had failed him, and that with my consent—my 1 consent indeed!—he intended coming back to England, and settling j| at Uppingham. | | It must be ten years at least since he came here, and those j last days of my life have indeed been the happiest of my existence. | i We have seen many changes in the village during that time, but | | we have watched more in ourselves, for I have learned, rather slowly |_l but surely, that suffering is not altogether without its reward, that jl life has higher purposes than self glorification or selfish indulgence, |f and so in spite of all my trials (and they have been neither few nor S light) the sure word of promise has been fulfilled for | me, " the eventide there has been light." • Jj | . . It. VI.—-HOW TO UTILIZE THE POWERS OF WOMEN. 1 'Is _ ** m . m immense country According three female to quarters the multitude last of census a must million consequentl of Eng more land women y , remain there than sing were men le | . in | This this | $ lives very an old , important and country in most , , therefore where instances every , to prov nook multi ide p and ly for female cr themselves anny emp appear loyments . | s | to , be | in , is no easy matter. If we could prevail upon our rulers | to su- ' the perintend inequality the between exodus the of the sexes population here at home to our mi outl ght y be ing considerabl provinces y , I I . ' diminishedbecause in more than one of our distant possessions | : there are five , men to one woman. § &lt; aggregate . But this of is surp not lus the females question to at be present what we before have stated us. , Taking the inquiry the _f J _i bod ought and to be mind how . we We are should to turn be to the best account to their powers that we of 1 1 1 : should y imitate any farther than we very do at sorry present propose the practices of ';\f 1 * 'I'$ .••) :i HOW - TO UTILIZES THE POWEES OF WOMEN. 35 tlie continent in rural districts, where women work in the field, _imtil they become shrivelled and tanned like so many nnimmies, in 1tinental the very nei fiower hbours of their act far age. more In some wisel respects than we , however do. Nearl , our con all ¬ kinds of shops g are given up to the management y of wonien, whether y it be that the young men are absorbed by the conscription, or that they take of themselves to more masculine callings. At any rate, the result is that thousands of women are able to earn their livelihood by means which here in England are entirely in the hands of men. In London alone there is a whole army of the stronger sex to be found behind counters, measuring out lace, longcloths, and ribbons, while the same number of young women, to whom these occupations are adapted by nature, are condemned to idleness I with all the mischievous consequences of which it is almost ne-3 cessarily the parent. Should society ever think of reforming itself, M we trust that one of its first improvements will be to appropriate to fj co the lonies sexes and the work other for fields which lie each is to best the fitted Lords . of The the army Creation , the while the , Ladies many of the Creation open are much more restricted in their , choice of crafts and mysteries by which to keep away the wolf from the door. Among "the Swiss, women some years ago took to the finer operations in the trade of watch-making, and the young men who j I gjl | countries had previousl , either y performed as mercenary this soldiers labor , readil commer y cial went travellers into forei —for gn 1 which their national honesty well fitted them—petty shop-keepers, 1 or clerks. In France it is common to find wonien, and sometimes even young and very pretty wonien too, employed as clerks and H money-takers at railway stations, and it is _affirmed that they do j this business much better than men. I However it is extremely difficult to discover fresh outlets for any U kind of industry in an old, and highly crowded community ; but if H the powers of invention were constantly directed towards this | should subject, doubtless which deserves succeed all in the the attention end. Our we forefathers can bestow a upon h it, and we I , roug $ I j when ready peop in the le, gave ordin wonien ary paths a much of the better world they chance found than no we room do ; and for I them they draughted them off into a peculiar sort of factories where I they earned their own bread, and by a wise contrivance rendered 1 labor respectable. These factories were the convents in which I women worked as. girls do now in the cotton mills, though with I much more moderation a_,nd in a different way. One of their I occupations consisted in copying and illuminating manuscripts, I In many pa,rts of the world, where there exists a considerable I amount of literary taste, printed books have not yet got into 1 fashion. The opulent, when they read at all, -will have manuscripts I , to read, copied with exquisite delicacy, and often bordered with I stars, flowers, and foliage in purple and gold. As these luxurious IM TOL. III. ¦ 1)2 36 HOW TO UTILIZE THE POWERS OF WOMEN. § the books y emerge are produced from, the by scri indolent ptorium writers —as the , who monks doze used over to ever call y letter their , f j fcremel writing dear room . —with marvellous slowness, and are therefore ex- J 1 Now y if the women of this country who have nothing more pro | - Stable to dowould learn to imitate the Oriental characters, and | , large B take a t lio market ttle copying mi severance g books ht soon for even be Turkey opened Korans , Persia for thus this , and produced kind Nor of th merchandise ern in Eng India _| | lan , da . I y per mi thou gh g t h be prejudiced got into , are circulation not quite in so the much East. under The the Mahomet dominion | ans of , j that failing as we in the West are apt to persuade ourselves | . They assist make us in navi use gating of all our our shi manufactures ps, they fig , h the t in y t travel he field with by our us | , side, § us and — recen whether tly they they have will even ever - done condescend us the to honor pay to is borrow another | question of . j At any rate it is very certain that they are becoming far more jfj in and economical matters buy lar of ge than literature quantities they were , of especiall them wont . y to w Still be hen . , they connec They have t like eda fi wi che ne th a t p as reli t g e, g oods ion and , , fj J j are possessed yet lavish of mone of their y, wi wealth ll travel . a Even long a way Sheikh to purchase of Arabia a favorite , when Jj J| book in the bazaars of Damascus or Cairo, and if it be beautiful J his will purchase cheerfully he pay puts many the pieces volume of go into ld for his it. ha When ik, hugs he | has it to made his j bosommounts his cameland turns his face towards the desert, J filled with , brilliant visions , of what his manuscript is to reveal to j him gold . meet He takes his eye it out , the now long and droo then ping and curve opens s of it the , the letters purp in le rich and ji ij j g olting lossy bl ofac the k in camel k he com prev p e ares nts his to the readin flow gers , soin hea puts meado it w back , but into the i J the will breast come." of his garment, exclaiming " Wallah J hismillah! the time | jj If the bazaars of the East were supplied with copies of what we 1 and may reasonable made call the as price popular far , as we possible books feel thoroug of to the resemble hl Moslem y persuaded Eastern s, written that manuscri on a good number pts | paper , at of a , j J our have coun no great trywomen ideam of ig the ht find industry occupation of women . The . If Asiatics they are themselves able to 1 1 bake 3an do care . of Yet their a story households is told at it Shiraz is in their , and op told inion with as much much g as lee they by | | the men, of a certain woman who many years ago performed | nerchant _wonders in at the Shiraz way of who business had inherited . There immense was, they wealth say, a from you his ng | J brefathers, and at a very early age married a wife. Not long | after Iie hat _urable was by . taken degrees ¦¦It wasted ill the of a away mer disease e his act which frame ' of ri , din the it g diminished p to hysicians the bazaar his pronounced streng becam | th e , too so - I I •m HOW TO UTILIZE THE BOWERS _OP WOMEN. 37 much, for Mm.. He confided in others, and they defrauded him.; he sent out agents to distant cities to buy and sell, but they became smitten enamoured with of melanchol the money y, and and lay disappeared on his . couch He revolving was, therefore 1 in his , mind the plan it would be proper to pursue. His beautiful wife, I who sat by his side, perceived his sadness, and soon conjectured the j| heart cause. of " woman Let not is strong my lord , and be there grieve are d," few she things said, " which for love under in the its influence she cannot accomplish. Tell me the cause of thy sorrow and thy melancholy, it is possible I may be able to remove it." He then explained to her that there was a rich merchant at Mosul, who expected from him an amount of merchandise which would load all the camels of a large caravan. But he added that there was no one whom he could trust with so much wealth, or "with the management of the business ; " and yet," he said, "it is jj - I m broug necessary ht safel that y the back merchandise , since it is the should portion be forwarded I have set , and aside the for money thee U when the Terminator of Delights shall separate us." | ¦ j &lt; j jj | Mosul thy " wishes Let , and that , and do thoug all veril that ht y be I will thou far from arrange wouldst thy the mind have whole ," done she affair had said. th and y " streng Exp go lain th to ft permitted. To avoid inconvenience and danger I will shave my 1 head, and put on thy habit, and appear like a man, and, inshallah, If J| objections we shall , see hinting what delicatel will come y at of his it wife ." 's The ignorance merchant of business made many , at ¦fj her unfitness to command a large caravan, at the slenderness of her H fj would figure, not at the be softness heeded and by gentleness the camel of driver her s voice , or the , which accountants he affirmed , or § I i the The soldiers wife of silenced the escort all . objections by saying she had made up her S mind to go, and that nothing could or should hinder her. Then H she went and cut off her beautiful hair, put on her husband's turban H and the rest of his garments, and thus equipped made a tolerably H respectable appearance. She was then furnished with letters and I orders, and set out for Mosul. The merchant meanwhile, though H under the care of the ablest physicians, went on from bad to worse. I His disease seemed incomprehensible, and the opinion prevailed I generally among those who attended him that he was now on his I death-bed. However as the hopes of those around declined his I own grew stronger. He thought perpetually upon his wife, and in I spirit accompanied her all the way to Mosul. In the caravan there was a Sheikh, old and experienced, who had travelled over half I Asia, and bought and sold among all kinds of people. With this I man the lady conversed respecting the business, with which, as an I agent, she appeared to be trusted. He gave her good counsel and I advice, supposing* her to be a younger brother of the great Persian I| 1I merchant accounts, . and With mad his e so aid much she entered proficienc upon 3 1 ' the in stud arithmetic y of books that and on 1 38 HOW TO UTILIZE THE POWERS _OE WOMEN. m business reaching . Mosul Her ability slie was could equal only to "be the equalled transaction "by the of gravity any kind of her of M j demeanour. She inspired those with whom she dealt with as- P tonishment profits. When , and she by had her performed perseverance all she and had skill undertaken realised immense her "What sole M J m was thoug Stie ht nature was how of she her mi investments ght return in is not the speediest stated ; but manner the author . of jj | the work on the bazaars of Shiraz observes that having learned JJ what was most wanted in the Southern parts of Persia, she pur- m chased them from the merchants of Syria and Roum, and Egypt m calculated and Morocco . , Money and so it double is said d the is gain a friend s upon both which in her sickness husband and had in j JJ informed health. In that a caravansary the traveller at Bag s dad who , the had merchant alihted ' there s wife , there was JJ M countries was a physician of El Hind among of the . His children complexion of the was Franks yellow returning g , and thoug from h her the far - m M beyond self. To the him period she of addressed youth he herself was altogether and said as , " beardless Oh physician as , I | 1 j , have a master at Shiraz who is a merchant, and his "wealth is great. Jj But he is afflicted with a disease so that all his possessions are of if no avail. If your skill in the science of Bocrat and Habisen will m slave enable — you that your to cure reward him shall I can be promise great." —for I am his confidential . 9 j " Lady," I will replied with the physician to Shiraz , " I and am see interested what is to in be your done | | ." - jl pearance On seeing , that go lie had you penetrated through her disguise', she if "blushed which the and stranger was confused said, " , Had and I knew been not deceived what b to y answer your dress ; upon it f S | would have been a bad omen. I comfort "It is . true Take ," that replied purse the and lad be y, content " and your . I am penetration | gives it will me ij be a proverb But well the with p in hysician my his husband country would on take which your no said account money that , . remarking " to pay before that | | there hand was is j the almost caravan as bad and as proceeded not paying to at Shiraz all. . Next He day found the that physici | the merchant an joined | was of the laborin world had g , under namel ht a y him , disease the to i death gnoranc by no 's door mean e of and s his uncommon in ph a ysicians few weeks in , which any would p | art b j f have degrees despatched broug him to paradise but for. the , arrival of this | stranger. While sician the his adventure cure was in of progress his wife the how merchant she had related emerged to from the p| the y- J business harem, how and she her had studies disguised and her herself , experience , how , and she the had great taken profits to 1 I she had gained , , which had made him the wealthiest merchant . in all 1 I Persia. . 66" She And is yet nineteen ," observed " answered the physician the merchant , " she is young " but you ." have many f I I, ; '_VtH like her in your country." j M M HOW TO UTILIZE THE POWERS OF WOMEN. 89 H if have "Let not us fallen hope in so my ," way answered . Perhaps the p , hysician however , , "thoug they h abound as yet here they ::M in Shiraz." J M | vinced "So no far one frora here thafc, w " ill answere believe d the the son story of of commerce my wife , . " I They am con will - I think we have borrowed the narrative from the fictions of the • ' m || Arabs This ." anecdotewhich most travellers in Southern Persia must have m heard, is rather a , proof, however, of what affection can perform, than Jj f j | | in the would question aptitude not have had of the been not Persian received successful women the in necessary her for undertaking business abilities . from Still , even if nature had the , lad she she y H H possessed Here, with the love us, life of must the Mistress be contemp of Mesnoun lated in . a more practical and ll l If | trials have comm for on toug -p every lace h every li atom ght -day than of profit work in the that to poetical do is , to aroun be countries earned d us of bare y the toil innumera East , and . often " bl We e , U M s fire in sp -side ite of finds great her patience task as difficult and skill as , the the asp asp irant irant for for a the comfortable crown of Jj j| this ambition , that . some Generall portion y when of the all population has been must said be and dislod done ged it hands conies and sent can to H Jjj find of drifting women emp away loyment are froni almost . And the entirel , common in the y new ordinary mass hands , before business . They any of have new life, the prejudices hands U If without end to contend with. Propose any new work for them, and M m to perfectl you maintain are y sure certain to as be that we encountered do most - seriousl persons b y y , will that a sneer consider in . several According it extremel departments ly y we comic feel of | If § government copy and draug , young ht women . As, however might be , it emp would loyed not as answer clerks, to especiall mix\_ip y !to clerks of both sexesthere should of course be apartments for each. A King of Western , Afrvica has carried his innovating notions Jj _M a considerabl female Amazons army y farther and are trusting moreover than we his just on royal the now person increase propose to its to and protection do our , by sex organising . take These to if I arm sooty s with wonderful alacrity. In the same , part of the world, I women have in all ages been, distinguished for their business ca-1 pacity means . uncommon They carry to on behold nearly a every kind and of reverend trade, and signor it is sitting by no I I quietly on a stool to have his head grave shaved by a ja_/unty young female | I b affair arber. disappears But when . peop Even le are among used our to it nei , all ghbours that is of comical Normand in the y, we ourselves have seen a female shaver operating on a man's I I great chin, and dexterity , be it . said In these to her matters credit, th the at French she wielded are certainl the razor y more with I I I p women hilosop But after can hical be all than , properl society we, y and must provided slide to some into for, novelties extent unless in be with these re-organised a ancient better heredi grace before . - 1 \ 40 HOW TO UTILIZE THE POWERS OP WOMEN. J :_iar &gt;f y wood drudgeries and drawers . In many of water parts of to Europe the community they are , the and real very hewers good j ; slaves they make too. Among mere savages the women do all the ; work, and are ill-used into the bargain ; or if there be any depart- : _tnent of labor, as hunting or fishing, which recommends itself by 1 furnishing a little amusement, the men do that lest their women I should become too sprightly. But even this state of things is per- f haps better than what takes place in spurious and corrupt systems | of civilization, where women are encouraged to be idle while young, j that they may be more thoroughly despised afterwards. It would | in our opinion be well if every woman, whether married or | , were able upon a pinch to earn her own living. The consciousness | that she could, would give her a feeling of independence, a thing j not to be despised in any walk of life. What is now called | educa- tion, tends generally to make women good for nothing. | Society abounds with coxcombs, who unquestionably think, if they are really jj able to think at all, that our sex are perfectly destitute of brains. § If we do anything tolerably well, they tap us encouragingly on the § shoulders, and exclaim, " Heally, that is very wonderful!" They had j evidently imagined previously that a woman and an owl | were the same thing. If we write, they criticise us with forbearance, ob- Jj viously from the conviction that our productions will not bear the f| test applied to those of men. It is the same thing in all the other i arts—our sculpture, our painting, our music, are very good con- m up sidering for prima ! "We donnas are surprised and dispute that gentlemen in matters of this of class voice do with not | the set i heroines of the opera. There, however, nature does actually seem 1 to award superiority to women. No male singer has ever acquired j the actresses celebrit too y the of Catalani world has , Pasta seen , marv Malibran ellous , or specimens Sontag. of Among intelli- fj .1 , gence—intelligence equal to the comprehending of the | thoug If women hts of Shakespeare can do this . , we think it may be regarded as an indi- . |J |J cation that they are equal to the performance of many other things, f| demanding depth of thought, accuracy of judgment, and delicacy §| of taste. Apart from the production of ideas, a great | actress is a time great s have orator been . If women this be . true What , som stands e of the in greatest the speakers of the development of modern 1 I of female intelligence is the rooted prejudice of way society, which prevents j women during their early youth from entering upon studies calcu- M Lated topics to are g proscribed ive them genius to them , vi which gor, _jst and . man ori 's ginality mind may . A travel thousand over 1 if from at pleasure naany . of An these actress intelle by ctual her drags situation , which is necessaril we contend y Mrs emanci she . _Siddons may pated be, 1 f was without woman probabl out at all of y as impairing ten tender thousand a her mother , and character the and same as as good a thing woman a wife we . as believe one Eng may lish be - . j 1 j jaid of Madame Pasta. We mention these two names because they ¦I i HOW TO UTILIZE THE POWERS OF WOMEN. 41 belong to the history of Europe, but we might adduce many others I ¦ jp H m were make _froni One , amon room for change examp g for those in many le the , of to others the social come actresses . entirel economy If several of y, our or of classes almost Eng own land day of entirel . shop would y s , in under naturall London the y J§ direction of women, the next thing would be to have female coinmercial travellers, who, with regard to all articles of female dress or ornament, would be far better able to conduct throughout the country the business of the London house than any man whatsoever. _^ Women, as it is, offcen travel alone ; some for JL pleasure, others through the urgency of their affairs, and many from sheer restlessness, or an unquenchable desire for locomotion. These, when belonging to the proper classes, and duly instructed in the business to which they belong, would make excellent commercial travellers. I We feel sure that very considerable departments of trade, if this view were taken of the matter, might fall into the hands of women, to the great advantage of employers and employed. Of course such a state of things would necessitate numerous changes in the system of female education, and instead of laboring to render girls Itimid, to strengthen their superstition and stimulate their nervous fj m maxims sensibility of , mothers circumspection would , endeavor self-dependenc to inculcate e, and into enterprise their , minds with § m 1 many It is other very analogous probable qualities , that to . some extent this plan may have ! j j| instances have alread met y been , with on acted the an Continent upon extremel in . Eng We leasant land once , it and certainl remember lad y -like has in , woman in Tuscany some from few to m some one of the smaller states y p of Germany, we y forget which, who might have been called correctly enough a commercial traveller. The husband had been a missionary entrusted with the distribution I of Bibles, but in what part of the world has escaped our memory. § On his way out, however, he died at Rome, an event which his wife, who with her sister was on her way to join him, learned at Leghorn. ft H Her funds were small, and, to render the matter still worse, her 1 health also was very indifferent. When she wrote to her friends in 1 Germany describing her circumstances, they, being probably them-I selves in business, hit upon the bright idea of commissioning her I to go about for them, and conduct the affairs of their house in I Italy. Her abilities were but ordinary, and so also were her per¬ il sonal attractions. She was honest, however, and diligent, and I living on very little, both she and her sister soon contrived to sur-1 round themselves with all sorts of comforts. They went occasionally I as far as Naples, and once I believe visited Palermo ; but in general I their operations were carried on in Northern Italy, where people 1 are more addicted to business, and understand it better than in the I South. As I felt an interest in their fate, I made many inquiries of I them respecting their prospects, their mode of doing business, their I profits, the character of those with whom they dealt, and many 42 HOW TO UTILIZE THE POWERS OF WOMEN. op otlier inion points of the ; and Italians I found , who, that according they entertained to them, were a very both favorable pleasant enterprising and Ainong trustworth women our than nei y. g who hbours the do Eng of lish France , there which , who are would as yet a hardl nation many come individuals are into far less the , heads especiall of y our countrywomen , things . A friend of ours, for exam y ple, met in the sold several African perfumery Eastern market , cities cheap French irdle trinkets s women li , blue ht shawls keep Venetian ing and shop beads even s, in intended sherbet which were and for fruits. He was told , — g but for , the g correctness , of the information he would not answer—that among the favorite sherbets of the Oriental ladiesthere was one which effervesced considerably and resembled what we , Western mortals denominate champagne. To drink this, i whilst bhe female purchasing Franks finery , where , the they ladies laug nocke hed d and in talked crowds and to the became shops at of I j bimes much exhilarated. During the pleasant colloquies which | boo leal k was place often under said the that influence had no of reference the effervescing to business sherbet . But , a great great U j profits narried were and made some , the few shop of them -keepers may grew still be rich seen , returned flaunting to throug Europe h , J _j | he bund Tuileries one , French and the woman Palais established Royal. at A Ispahan traveller , dealing many years in pipes ago , § 1 ; [ " 3 o ndia pas ! b anz acco fitted Company , Tombuk up as still a , them smoking and preserves s secretl elve -room s y the in , the where monop that aid of ol the article y the . dreamy A Indian of part which descendant of drug her the , beyond house East s of | Jf p j j| | he mountain transported of Kaf into the , by delightful regions of Jininstan. . fl These facts we have , mentioned to show how much enterprise and j| aotive ourage than women the can love sometimes of gain ; disp but lay they -when would insp be ired able _| by no higher - JJJ Lnitel laims y better and destinies if society . When "were to the reform Nemesis its views of civilization respecting bli their ghts J 1 | heir prospects, and blots out their names from the list of mistresses p f ex ie itelli families , best but simp way , be they ly they well as should beings can cultivated . be If condemned g taught ifted and directed with to to regard earn hi betimes gh their self themselves own - into respect livelihood the , channel as if of their | no in s § f jf j | f business gence there is no reason why they should not _| - endenceor , even affluence, for themselves. It is impossible to map m at the future , and therefore we cannot pretend to say what course m le elled leir surp situation by lus circumstances female will , be population much to take improved , of but this we by country are learning thoroug will to hl hereafter depen y persuaded d upon be their com that - M 1 1 wn exertions. Even should they afterwards marry, they may be assured : J§ will be no drawback either to their comfort or their happiness to be w _ble _iy one to provide . We for know themselves what class in case of persons of emergency God is without said proverbiall the aid of y m m. m Im I HOW TO UTILIZE THE POWERS OF WOMEN. 43 I to lielp. Let women bear the wisdom, of that old adage in mind, I 1 need and stud not y be their at all own alarmed capabilities lest the with progress reference of civilization to business. should We I I I majorit produce operation y too of s of Adam many machinery ' substitutes s children need to for to to eat elevate human be the directed bread those labor, who of ban y idleness d intelli overlook thus gcon . ence them d All emn , and the ina I I the have mental consequentl scale. y But a tendency there are innumerable processes which neither I I of science labor nor . These invention, nor be regarded anything as else the , can perpetual take out inheritance of the hands of I the children of toil may out of which bread springs up to them, like j I i p because leasant none fruit but on those the , way who -side have of tasted life. it We can say tell p how leasant sweet fruit the , H ] I never earnings besto of w labor a deli are ht . _eqiial Fortune to that , in which her utmost a man earns munificence for himself , can B when he eats what he g has sownand plucks from trees which he has , | | 1 g | himself It is one planted of . the noblest characteristics of the present age that it | m j contemp is willing lates to . recognise The surp this lus truth female . population -Still it is in man the chiefl British y that islands it If have duct themselves little or no wisel care or an attention d bestowed it is admitted on them that . they If they do -well con- ; H fS but ori the other hand y no one prosper is surprised or excited to very great f f| | " commiseration Women, therefore if , they when are they plunged cultivate over their head understanding and ears , in and ruin put . forward their thoughts for the benefit of the public, should as far as possible The loftiest direct minds their among efforts men to the have improvement always been of distinguished their own sex by . ! _sg §1 unusual among which sympath we y must for reckon the But calamities men the after fact of and all being misfortunes can born rarel in estimate an of old women and at , j I their over-peop full led value country the difficulties . and obstacles with which y women have | I things to contend are . required When of sing them le and almost left wholl to to be their y bold incomp own and atible resources resolute ; first , and two , in 1 1 I I ment men second order , , that and to , it succeed they delicacy is demande shall they , for never which d are of overstep them expected in all , to ages the obtain and gentleness the countries full , approbation reserve women , refine ; have of - | obtained credit. But she who has to fight the battle of life, with-1 I the out recesses the least of aid her from own any heart will one, in c she annot evitabl may practise be contract delicate much from reserve and the refined . cir In - I I cumstances enough, but of her her manners position a certain masculine y air not very re-I concilable with that timidity which they are universally required I to display. I into Manners To insi gain gnificance are great important things when enoug we thrown must h considered into consent the balance b to y themselves sacrifice against small , duty but ones sink and . 1 44 HOW TO UTILIZE THE POWERS OF WOMEN, virtue. Tliere are things which, as human beings we must do, and great stress ought to be laid upon the way in which we do them, but obviously the main point consists, not in the mode, but in the fact. These observations we make for the purpose of neutralising the objections which the world often makes to the bearing and demeanour of professional women. It is not with them, however, a question whether they shall be timid or intrepid. To keep their fortunes afloat they must bring into play all those faculties of the mind by which men are commonly differenced from women. It is the fault of society, not theirs, if fault there be. Wherever the civilization of a country provides homes for all the women of the nation, their manners are reserved, domestic, gentle. It is only when called upon to make their own way in life that they take to imitating men. Circumstances remove them from the fire-side, and place them out in the sunshine, dust, and bustle of the great arena of the world, and if they fail to advance by their own strength they are trodden down and lost. This gives to many professional women that air of pretension which is so nearly allied to quackery. They are compelled to act a part, to seem to be familiar with what they know nothing about, and thus to acquire by degrees the semblance of arrogance, though in truth nothing may be farther from their nature. Most persons will remember the adventure which happened to Jean Jacques Rousseau, when forced by poverty, assisted a good deal also by vanity, to play the great musician. He had composed what he thought a piece, and all the people of the place were invited to witness the performance. Unluckily many among them understood music, which poor Jean Jacques did not. When, therefore, he plunged into a sea of discords his horrible attempts were received with shouts of derisive laughter, at which he took to flight and never more made his appearance in the town. Something not very dissimilar once happened to an English lady in Normandy. Without knowing the least thing about Italian, she determined to teach it, distributed cards, and obtained a throng of pup there ever ils , she . chanced With got on to the swimming be young ones ly them ; , but who a as understood her evil Irish star no lad s language woul who d not have what onl it - , read but spoke Italian among , though she young was desirous y of , obtaining y a further insight into the niceties of the language. When the unfortunate mistress came, the discovery was at once made that the teacher should have gone to school to the pupil; but, beyond the mortification which the lady could not but feel at having been constrained to place herself in such circumstances, no inconvenience resulted to her. On the contrary, the generous pupil undertook to instruct the teacher, while the lessons were as regularly paid for as they would have been in the ordinary course of things. By degrees the adventurous professor was really able to perform what she undertook, and earned for herself and her mother a comfortable subsistence. § HOW TO UTILIZE THE POWERS OF WOMEN. 45 | | A somewhat ludicrous story is told of a Spaniard, who, having H I to been maintain driven his from position his country , and , also and to not prevent exactly his knowing soul taking * what 1 fli to g do ht I from his body, ventured to teach the guitar. This happened at Aril gentan in Lower Normandy. Having a natural ear for music, and 1 having received perhaps some few lessons in early youth, he succeeded j I p extremel lace how y well to serenade in teaching their the future sentimental spouses young . As he gentlem proceeded en of , the he I acquired skill, and his confidence more than kept pace with his ac-B quirements. His blue blood seemed to become bluer as the name of 8 j| some at parties new , pup and il was the enthusiasm almost every of month the good added peop to his le list of . Argentan He played for B their Spanish guitarist knew no bounds. At length a withered B middle-aged gentleman came to Argentan. It was not exactly 8 known to what country he belonged, though most persons had a _M suspicion that his cradle had been rocked in Navarre, if not in m Castille. Something inspired him with the wish to learn to play on |l ,|3 standing the guitar in , and the he midst sent for of the grounds professor , with to his coachhouses house, a large and building stables suited to the establishment of a prince, though neither carriage nor H horse were in them. The stranger who appeared to be a miser, kept | | but one servant, a darkey, leaner and more withered than himself. M When, one fine morning in June, the great guitarist arrived, flushed m with the hopes of the inflowing of francs, he was shown by the U African into a garden where there were walks half a mile long, H bordered with tulips. Presently the master appeared, received the jl H professor summer-house in the , where most he courteous thought manner proper , to and take conducted his lessons him . into In all a j jj practicable his experience a pup , however il. He , the had guitarist no more ear had for never music met than with Dean so Swiffc im- , f m j | stranger who song boasted and pup the il that bray . But he ing could of if a his hardl donkey stup y distinguish . idity It was was much great between the , so a sam also nig e htingale with was the his 's j generosity. Instead of being miserly as the neighbours generally U supposed, he proved himself to be very profuse, and gave the worthy | | teacher One day about while ten they times were what sitting had been together agreed as usual upon. in the summer-I house, he took up the guitar and handled it in a way which made M the professor tremble, and saying carelessly, " I think I have pro-I fited a little by your lessons," began to play in a manner so exqui-1 site, that the unfortunate refugee, overwhelmed with shame, threw I himself on his knees before him, and asked a thousand pardons for | having " The taken fact his is," money he observed . , "lam a poor Spanish gentleman | 1 me driven of my from country my country 's favorite , and having instrument no means , which of has living hel , ped bethoug me on ht pretty well till now." I "It has helped you much better than you imagine," replied the 1 M i 46 HOW TO UTILIZE THE POWERS OF WOMEN. stranger " is payment . " There for my ," l said ast l he esson , presenting , which will Mm he with more a piece agreeable of paper to , I feel assured, than many pieces of gold." you ground to The return , , Spaniard and to his burst own took into country it tears , read , . and it Could again to all it and be the again true honors ? , dropped It and was estates it an on order the of ¦which 66 I see he , had " said been the deprived stranger . , " that you are surprised ; but I have reason this found ." "b you e wh st He y to then Spain be il? a added " should man He , of was laug be honor deprived hing the , leader l and y: of am " Tell your of convinced the me services opposite honestl ther at y part a e , am time exists y, I who like not no , Ihappened your to pup be travelling incognito in France for political purposes meeting Of . course adventures it would be like wrong these for , thoug peop h le what in general has happened to reckon upon may 1 I and happen a wish again to . lease At all will events often it go is _vexy certain far towards that agreeable making manners up for I 1 the such want qualities of extensive p are present knowled , peop ge le even of sense in a professed are willing teacher to put . up ' Wher with e If p 1 inferiority Catherine it in of is other Russia said respects so , _thoiig deli . h hted far with from the being manners an amiable of a person French , 1 m w singer tier as aon , lucrative ce who , could appointment not , sing, that g , observing she retained , " that her she at- did court this and out gave of I j 3onsideration for the ears of the good people of St. Petersburg." I But ?ived if more the lad satisfaction y could not from sing her , she anecdotes could , talk her ; stories and Catherine , her invin de - - j 1 iible "What gaiet we y, have than said from the not greatest be very prima encourag donna ing of to the young opera ladies . in 1 m search lave the of contrary a profession effect may , but , we it have is not an our almost intention unlimited that it faith should in M j _courage oon be . able What to do peop . Every le believe thing they gives can way do before , they either resolution can or ; even will, m if he heless art of "be writing acquired , the thoug most difficult h middle practised life be by past mankind . The , may greatest never- _^ 1 omposed aost _arsons f Turkish charming who afterwards pashas intend memoirs could to what make in not the Oriental their write Turkish way his scholars own in language the name assure world . at But forty by us as any to , and a be form rule the yet | , | M m jf f niental cultivation will be apt to begin earlier, because the ne- m _essit ) despair y human for . exertion There being is is likel with an y infinite to tolerable be sooner variety fixedness felt of ; if paths not of , purpose there in life is no , may so reason that be M M Jj very ire be to in find earnest one suited to understand to him or exactl herself y what AU you that want is necessary , and to be is m m _&gt; , "itisfied Unless with we moderate totally misunderstand success. our countryw * omen, they ' are M H 1 11 m I FASHION VERSUS HEALTH. 47 V i § a achieve quite fair as chance independence well fitted there must as for any themselves be in an the entire world , thoug revolution .— h we in mean order in the by to nature theory give th — and em to I practice of educati , on. Let women preserve the delica-cy of their I I not sex b be y all afraid means to , launch but while forth keep into ing this the great polar star ocean in view of knowled , let them ge, I upon which, they may take our word for it, they will find themselves I quite as able to float as men. I Yn—FASHION vjersus HEALTH. I I with My respected regard to maternal modern relative innovations is in which the habit frequentl of using y affords an expression me con-I siderable amusement. After giving vent to her own gratification, H astonishment, or, as is more usual, her indignation at the changes she jjf If main is dail unalterable y compelled as to the witness laws in of the things Medes which and she Persians would , have she invokes had re- , M § m | his head as it op were looks inion , the of oracular sp the irit sai of and d my change prefaces decease s throug d her grandfather remarks h herself , with making . She the him words shakes deliver , " her If M 11 U A p she and my lainl poor has , since y regarded had father his the death could notion her , , immediate which look that up occurred her he progenitor would own forty words say years / as 7 will etc a paragon . ago , acquire etc or . thereabouts M of additional y wisdom mother , , H 3 wei I g once ht if made put, as bold one to may suggest say, into an alteration the mouth in of her his favorite ghost. phrase. w I intimated that, if she persisted in bringing him in as a party conm cerned in sublunary revolutions, it would be more agreeable to my • H i _Jj position p feelings limentary as to a loo to near /c his down relative memory on the of , if the dwellers she departed were upon to , and allude earth certainl . to I him y should more as com in not a - 4 like to repeat the torrent of indignant reproaches which this un-I p will luck of her y I, jest in oracle my of mother mine or hazard called 's hearing a forth remark , . venture En as oug to to h question his to say abiding that the never p infallibility lace. again m , I 1 host Of all and the caused topics it to which use have mother excited as the a medium ire of my for grandfather the utterance 's I g of condemnatory , expressions my , perhaps none has let loose such a de-I luge or My even mother of maiden eloquence rarely as sees without the a present fashionably lifting sty her le of attired hands dressing spasmodicall mother little and children y child , and . , wom exclaiming en dress : " themselve If coy my , poor s and father their could children but now look -a up -days and , he see would how "rave. 48 FASHION VEKSUS HEALTH. think Setting quiet aside reasoning tlie sli would ght difference be as efficacious of opinion in inducing which makes a change me most as any cordiall amount of raving when _^ we we , discuss that is this the g particular host, medium theme , and . This self, being the case y , agree albeit my years are comparatively few, I will briefly g is ive First often our then dense united , I with am ideas much fog on , yet the concerned so subj cold ect , . that for the when little we children leave the . che The erful air fireside and venture out of doors we feel as though we were going wrapped into a well round , or, us to . speak I look more from mildl my I y, window as if a wet on little blanket such children a raw had been cold it day not and one in of the whom course in of ten an is hour properly see protected many from the weather pass . I , shudder as I note the short cotton drawers, often not reaching the knee and the , worn still by shorter both petticoats sexes under hi seven gh enoug years h of above age, the or thereabouts first-named , decorated garments . to I disp look lay below the handsome this dainty embroidery frilling, with often which the produce they are of many devoted an to hour the adornment 's toil which of her the darling mother , and has I g see ladl several y and inches proudl of y blueish mottled flesh between it and the top of the little sock shortness which Looking only contrasts just again reaches at oddl the the with upper ancle its dress . redundant , I notice width that . its My exceeding mother is also a looker on. She y points out , the short skirt of the little frock or frii coat /l , can and be with so far withering as warmth sarcasm is concerned asks of what ! The earthl child y use stoops that . Forthwith the curt, full garment assumes an almost perpendicular position, and the sole covering of the tiny human biped—one is ready cotton to wish, draw poor ers little which soul after ! that all it had cover feathers only a — small 'Consists portion of the of thin the me body to . rej My oice parent that her begins father to cannot hold forth look up in , a and manner thereby which double cause the s torrent of words which she now utters in behalf of both. tender I shall mother not s, attemp especiall t y to you equal whose her in position eloquence gives , but you , dear power ladies to , lay whatever down the law le in is matters set by of " the dress gentle ,—for ," it " the is well simple known " will that not fail selfish to follow or interested examp ,—listen to irit me beseech ; I plead you for your to give little their ones, frail and, bodies in no some more substantial sp and , fitting shelter from the cold. How can flay love you their bear to tender child send limbs them , with out mother , when those ? poor Any the p little one itiless can limbs east see uncovered wind that is who read . You wit y to - a nesses kiss your . the Yet lighting , young who up of have your face lained when of he the lifts cold his all rosy day mouth , thoug for h the amp I le folds condemn you of your this tender war comp m little dress being sweep to the face path the as sam you e de w gree alk, you, say, ' " \ - I' . '. I' FASHION VERSUS HEALTH. 49 ¦ \f- ' \ . ¦ iI ] ¦i; ' least short of cold breeze skirts as nearl is in at y which as any possible time sufficient unclad deem him from to whirl dressed the waist aside and , downwards or leave rais him e tke . half The full - _\ j i the naked matter . I, who against am which but you a look I protes er on t, , feel having a thrill neither , of pity part pervade nor lot my in I j \ fortable fire frame , to , and chafe garments fairl the y long , little which to blue , gather however legs these and homel starve encase y in d y texture them oungs in t ,ers should more round com keep my - } { them It is warm well . known that no amount of satire which can be aimed at the ridiculous in dress will ever suffice to alter an absurdity merely I \ tacks because on it small is such bonnets . Every , and bod laug y _- has hed read over the Punch comic 's humorous illustrations at-; I I the which tall accompanie footman carry d them ing . his But mistress it is a 's long bonnet from time on since her a salver neck we smile while behind d at a ji h "er blessed , or at babb the " same nestled appendage amid the hang blond ing and flowers within , . Punch y ! I lias crinoline given . up And these here in despair again, and desp now ite the wastes positive his discomfort ammunition this on _j 1 mode that the —I stronger speak from the ridicule experience hurled —entails against on the it, wearer the more , we stiiti know y the the crinoline hoops have has resisted spread itself all efforts athwart to the collapse civilized them world , the . wider whim If, h pertaining owever, any to behind extravagance a day, a it month no evil were , or a merel year, y and to which be I would regarded would utter then as no a to protest pass reason away again . , leaving But st it. unfortunatel I might join y, the in a probable laug consequences h, but consequences would , never of attemp some t of these freaks , of fashion seem to be utterly ignored. Yet some of time so ago an cases eminent of tic doctor or neural stated ic that affections he had of never the known head and or read face as had many come under his notice amongst g his female patients since the allotted reign of to small the head bonnets he attributed commenced the . rap To id the spread insufficient of an agonizing coveringfashion disease; will and not he end further with asserted the wearers that the of infinitesimal effects of this bonnets pernicious , but will be handed down to their offspring. If then children inherit mothers a tendency on , their who to not little neural onl ones y suffer gic merel comp in their laints for fashion own throug persons 's sake h the but how foll entail y much of suffer those must - this ing tendency be increased by y the state of semi-nakedness , in which the uncertain youngsters climate are . Yet sent whoever forth to thinks face our on. damp the , subject cold, and must most be non convinced -clothing that , will thi produce s system dire of results clothing which , or, to the speak loving more but correctl thought y - , less mother who delights to see her child in the fashion never antici In pates writing . this I would not be thought to utter a word of r©~ VOIi. III. JS 50 FASHION VERSUS HEALTH. § ' Sat " proach of feeling against and consideration these mothers for , or the to creatures breathe an they accusation have borne | of want and |f nurtured. So far from thisI believe there are few mothers who, j once convinced of what will advantage , their children, would leave I that their any And effort side little thus untried of ones I the jud in ge to insufficient icture procur those which e dear them clothing _inconsiderate showed even . a probable They their women have darling good looked who . Frederick send only out at , ft jf ; ? | | Charlesor Amelia p Anndressed in the pink of fashion, never If treat of dreaming suffering the , matter that . And the seriousl cost it is of y , because the and finery rationall I beli may y eve have instead it is to onl be of y paid ridiculing necessar by | years it, |§ |_f which would but increase the evil I am anxious to see overthrown, j| of that fashion I thus . venture to plead from my heart for the little victims _| I to Some wrap parents up much they have will of their a never notion children find that it 's necessary if children to to are the do not so cold , and accustomed as that can | be §| j left exposing uncovered as without indecency—my persons mother says the effect pro- ff hard duced starvation y. by But these . Children there short is wide should a skirts wide be encour is difference indecent aged — to between they face will a sharp coddling render | breeze them and , Jj f and not shrink even before a " nor-easter," but they should be § armed against its ill effects by warm and substantial clothing | . The the other necessity day I heard for out a little -door fellow exercise , whose , answer mother apologeticall was urging y, " | on Please, | mamma " Pooh , do nonsense let me stay " she at home answered , it is , so _" look cold. " at papa, he has been | I beat out, and me at you , bearing do not cold , hear ." him The comp boy lain evidentl . I would y " didn not 't let see even it, | " and j mo Had st reluctantl I been y on joined more the intimate attendant term nursem s with the aid. lady I should | have j| if asked , instead how she of broad thoug -cloth ht. " ¦ papa " continuation " would like s," to he face wer the e condemned cutting wind to , | J thin cotton drawers of the same length, or rather shortness, as § p those same hysicall worn proportion y, no by the better . hop And fitted e of surely the to famil endure the y child , and cold of with than five was bare years the legs parent old in was the of , &amp; % f thirty The -five starvation years. system is unnatural, and nature avenges herself I ;• fortunatel for who rage the commit her sli y g laws ht thoug put the with h upon , in new the her but and case teachings those poi of the gnant on , b little y whom punishing forms children it of is committed suffering , those it is not who . , those who out Un - - i j i ; pay If the dear penalty ladies . outrage are , not already convinced by what I have 1 % the adduced animal , , observe creation , and you . follow See how the the examp birds le prep of the are inferior nests of portion superior of :¦ . ] \ ¦ ¦ ¦. ¦1 - ¦ ._« ; | ladies' institute. 51 I softness and -warmth, for tlieir young, and how they, and many j for of the them larger until they animals are as also well , use able their to face own the bodies cold as as themselves a shield . | j form I might of disease say much so more prevalent , and and in particular fatal at this respecting time, especiall the new y j If apparel enoug amongst h , to and children induce that . the a ch But little ange I bare with trust throats resp the ect mere and to the purple mention obnoxious limbs of it articles will will soon be of f _, Ij _v | | g to low what And , thoug to fashion my h fellow invisibl prescribes countryw y, beneath for omen them comfortable substantial . let In me summer also because coverings say , crinoline a "word . with and regard hoops the | f§ cling were ing lauded of the by the dress fair and sex kep as t the person cool. Now they the prevented argument |j which was in favor of the fashion then, must at this season be a | ff I fair powerful sequence sex have of one wearing a against mind the to it, brave and above doctors the -named discomfort hint garments at of rheumatism . hoops However and as desp if a con the ise - | 1 • to the wear ridicule sufficientl hurled y warm against clothing them from below all sides their , crinoline let me advise to prevent them the In possibility this as in of other physical matters injury make . fashion subservient to health, I I and for the sake of yourselves and unborn generations, dear ladies, I| | of let nature me conjure and tend you to to wear keep such you in clothing health. as will satisfy the demands B. B. '1 VIII—LADIES' INSTITUTE. | I 1 In the December number __ — of _^ _— _— this - *_ Journal the attention of its I readers was called to that portion of Lord Brougham's speech, 1 delivered at York in the _, course of the preceding month, which | vf If hardshi sing referred le or ps " to widowe Lord the Broug wrong d ladies ham s and suddenl dwelt hardshi y forcibl thrown ps of y women upon upon . the the " Among world condition , either these of | | instancing wholly or inadequatel the Stifters y provided in Germany for , by he fathers suggested and the husbands expedi ; ency and | % of ameliorate some measure the trials bein and g adopted discomforts in Eng to land which which so large might a class tend to of | ¦; : has the femal given e portion rise to of very the general community expressions is exposed of . sympath This suggestion y in the 1 ; public press, and to various movements in private for the achieve-| _, : | ment calculated We of purpose so to desirable meet now the to an requirements put obj before ect Institution . our of friends a Home for and for irls subscribers Ladies and adults , in a p con lan as - | ¦i | bination governesses vantages with of , a book Training a Training -keepers Institution , - clerks, for and girls secretaries from g the . age On s of the sixteen ad-| VOX. III. 152 'I I 52 ladies' institute. is to intended twenty, it to is supp unnecessary ly a want to seriousl dwell y at and length increasing . This ly department felt, i.e. ~b y education scientific training of irls' , to schools turn . to practical ¦ ?' account the ordinary desultory The rapid g advance which has been made during the last few years in the employment of female labor, and the success which has even more recently attended its partial introduction into railway stations, etc., warrants, and indeed necessitates, the practical training of girls and adults for those more responsible situations long filled by women in France, and from which there is every reason to believe Englishwomen will no longer be excluded when once efficiency shall have replaced inefficiency, and trained female labor be readily obtainable There are . few among us who ¦ 'are not familiar with the painful and embarrassing position in which women of cultivated minds and tastes, reared in ease and comfort, find themselves when suddenly obliged to work for their livelihood. However carefully educated, however accomplished, their acquirements are for the most part desultory ; and, in the first hurry and shock of loneliness and selfdependence, their powers become paralysed, the real hardships and discomforts of their position assume forms so gigantic as often to shadow their whole future, and lend to honest labor, in itself a happiness and a delight, gloom and despair from which there is often no after escape. A woman thus situated knows not where to turn. Her friends are equally puzzled. Knowledge she may have, but she knows not how to use or impart it. Learning and teaching are two very different things, as she learns now probably for the first time, and when she fiies to that refuge for the destitute, the governess's vocation, she finds her want of experience an insuperable-bar to the few lucrative situations it has to offer. Now the plan we are about to submit has a remedy in view for this evil. An adult class for the training of women thus thrown upon their resources will form a prominent feature ; and, whether as governess or book-keeper, clerk or secretary, the advantages in obtaining a situation as member of a first-class institution are selfevident. It is proposed to give a home to fifty Lady-Residents ; a bed-room and sitting-room in one being appropriated to each, with the use of public drawing-room, library, and dining-rooms; the | drawing- room being reserved exclusively for the use of the Lady-Resident | s and their friends, while the library and dining-rooms will be acces- 1 sible to out-door Lady-Members, according to the rules of the Insti- * bution. A house is at this moment in the market, which offers rare ad- ; _vantages both as to situation, price, and conditions of purchase, and he immediate co-operation of all parties interested in the subject is sarnestly invited. " ¦' ¦»¦ I8 SOCIETY OF FEMALE AKTISTS. 52 it _fl It is intended to niake the Institution, in all its branches, self-| |p Jfj § thus speedil supporting conferred y give . rise The cannot to success others fail of all materiall one over such the y country to institution alleviate , and in the the London advantages difficulties will §j§ which surround educated women of small means, and women whose | jj f J professional This lication plan is exertions alread to the y E are so ditors far all _Organised upon of the which " that they lish prospectuses have Woman to depend 's can Journal be . had ," | |j on 14a a , pp Princes Street, Cavendish Square, Eng W., a stamp being- enclosed |{ to defray postage. | IX.—THE THIKD _ANNUAL EXHIBITION OF THE I . SOCIETY OF FEMALE ARTISTS. 1M '' in,_i —~——§ j I J " our one We was reasons gave that at for some it s would ymp length athisin foster , g in and wit the h train this third Society much number ; female of of which this talent the Journal , which chief , I under present , disadvantages of instruction up could with difficulty | I asp We ire to are the , however walls of , compelled the Royal ictures to Academy observe which . , find after lace two on inspections these walls of | | | foster that art the three submitted unless -mother hundred some of to a severer the noble and hang seven school test ing p of committee exclusion and is onl , is it too app can likel p lied hardl to to y make the become works women the of , | I believe they paint like artists, ; when they y only paint y like amateurs. | Our first impression, on glancing cursorily over the walls, was of | | I preponderance unp a general leasantly pell contrasted of mell children of in colors and every , flowers blues direction , . reds There , , and yellows is an a , extraordinary total and want green of s, i the finish and harmonious tones of the two Water-color Galleries, | If are and no of historical the intellectual scenes, bri nor ghtness quotations of the from Hoyal Goldsmith Academy , and . very Her few e | I distinct But upon ideas a close , orig survey inal or , we borrowed are boun , in d all to the say p that ictures many in the of room them . I are very carefully painted, and that, if the bad ones had been re-I fused admittance, the residue would have given much pleasure to the | \\ ! express eye quire , if wh little in y writing Eng food lishwomen for , should the mind , have who . We so write few would so thoug well fain hts , , however and at the have , ends pause so much of to their in to - i brushes ? Why are their pictures, or those of such as exhibit here, I (for many of our best names are absent or scantily sustained in this \ year's catalogue,) so devoid of any peg of association to which \ memory can cling ? All true artists paint new truths ; teach us by I their superior insight something which we had not iseen before for i i " I _i" 54 SOCIETY OF FEMALE ARTISTS. ourselves. Look at Holbeiny Vandyke, Sir Joshua, how they caught the aristocratic intellect of their respective ages ; and at WilMe, how licatel he David penetrated y Cox expressive . with life the among the sublime pencil the of poor asp William . ects How of Hunt Eng heartil lish ! y Rosa nature intimate Bonheur ; how is not de old - than only p all aints , that the he hide can put of a into Bull his , but bovine brings bellow out in ; his and eyes Miss all Sellon , or more , in her shops sympath " . Momentous y In which true has painting Question been , reflected as ," in struck true from strai poetry the ght , g there at lass the p must anes heart o be f of a something a th popular ousand more The th one an mere female descr exhibitor iption; who even means if that something be of a perfect , and kind says . what she means, is Miss Florence Claxton, whose every stroke is instinct with over her thoug scenes ht- from Somebod the y " Life is always of an Old sure Bachelor to be sitting ," and and those poring from the " Life of an Old Maid." We think they are, strictly speaking, the Mrs best . E p . ictures Murray here is as , being bright so , dashing good of , their and c kind harm . ing as ever, and knowled as apt to ge be of untrue anatomy . She does is not a born lurk arti in st the ; but blood , unfortunatel like a love y, of a color. Her " Italian Goatherd" has the face of a -woman, and tume seems sea pensioner ; to but be , looking unhapp , and the il at y, whole you he, in or fi p g lay she ure ful , , is thoug derision as devoid h painted of of her legs with assumed as ease a Chel cos and - - face the spirit same , and and way lovel the , y a commiserating young color, bears boy in a another whimsical spectator of , her resemblance knowing pictures how has to a a c top old swollen . and In damp a day can dawn even in the glorious skies of Rome, is tempted to say, " Oh ! the mumps !" • Yet Mrs. Murray enjoys herself so hear do not tily wonder that she that forces she her sells spe everything ctator to enj that oy him she self exhibits also, . and Her we painting is like some singing and some dancing, irresistible by its bonhommie Miss Marianne and grace Stone . is the very reverse, careful and soinewhat heavy Miss Louise ; yet the Rayner pencil paints often old lingers edifices over very her well nam ; Mrs e in . the Hig catalogue ford Burr . recalls in those p earl leasantl y days y to when our the mind unfortunate the dear delicate aspirations architecture of the Renaissance of Italy, had not darkened the vision of her artists; such architecture as yet rooted glorifies out Florence of Rom , Pisa esave , and in Verona those daint , but has but , alas lected ! been cloisters well nig of h , y neg St. John Later an, which are alike her pride and her disgrace. Mrs. Bodichon sends an elaborate sketch from nature of a " Pine Swamp " in the southern states of America. Also another of a scene near Algiers. This lady's paintings possess the truth and power entransparency sured Mrs by . Withers their and being paints clearness actu very al transcri ; carefully the snowberries pts , but from we nature feel which . a sli deli ght ght want child of - fjS ' SOCIETY OF FEMALE ARTISTS. 5, Hi liood are fresh and white as if veritably moulded out of snow _W Miss Florence Peel works away, as she oddly tells us, for " self :| _p p by improvement her stones ," and and ivy if she she abide will s not with go unrewarded such pertinacious . Her _industry paint m M II ings Miss and they Adelaide now are look Burgess some labored of , has the but a pretty most they will creditable picture acquire from work a " more The on Old easy these Curiosit power walls _y Hj |f Little pup Shop il ; to " icture his but eye her of ; little _" a The serious boy "Wife could oversi " so not ght attracted be ! " Miss looking us Tekusch last up, year " , for whose , h he as has no loverj w _nc a | | Jp fj ; | p so icture well p , but called the " remarkabl The Comrades y expressive ," which face we of the do man not arrested like nearl oui _y attention. Miss Ellen Cantelo has made a great advance this year. p if Her " Wild Flowers " are most delicately painted, and the fragile m H m • overladen blue Her larger speedw ; p th ell icture er looks e , is " Watergate as subject if a breath enoug , ie Isle h called "would of for Wi two " g cause The ht p ," ictures Pet is the very " . petals we careful Mrs do not to . Swiffc , like fall but . |f her has a others charming so "well picture . Several of a dogg other names we have ; marked, Miss H j j§ | Hamilton Stoddart in for landscape a clear and ; vivid Miss sketch C. James of the in entrance flowers to ; the Mrs Piraeus . C. B . . | | 1 § brows Thebes Mrs. Roberston , and " sitting the Nile solemnl Elaine water y has , the flowing a li fine ght round of oil dawn sketch their upon feet of . their " The Among blind Colo cop blank ssi ies of | | I I f we and lanned In notice " conclusion , La this belle a good society Chocola , we one would , from tiere and " those Sir earnestl of Joshua Dresden who y ask are R , eynolds b its one y Mrs members question , . by Pop Madam ham , or of those among . e Grreata who its , exhibitors p . How is it that so many of the best names are absent, | I I volunteer that they ? have Where not been is Mrs secured . Thorn b eyeroft y treat , y and , or where induced is Miss to heartil Susan y 1 Durant ? We miss the names of Miss Fox, of Mrs. Robinson, of I Miss Howittwho can paint such pictures as " The Sensitive Plant," | | long Jane Benham ago so , great Hay, an whose attraction minor -works at the as Portlan an illustrator d Gallery have ; and been of | | | | her artist every so widel laborious bod if y y she circulated knows will and . choose conscientious in Miss the Ann beautiful beautiful a B brush lundon subjects editions , is , who missing on of will which Long be this fellow a to year trul exercise y which ; good and | Miss Gillies, the best known representative of the female artists j 1 Is of Eng Miss land Mutrie , sends afraid but that one p all icture the — other " Vivia flowers Perpetua (and in plent Prison y of ." | I excellence come them) forward will onl fade into inferi before thi or s her limited to that finished of arena nature brilliance , and herself give ? . them If so, a let standard her still of | y i. i ¦ _" ¦'-'¦ '_.n_^_r v_.y-r _ts. ixsss: !-i .J | i I | (56) ¦ IS 1 X.—NOTICES OF BOOKS- ¦ ¦ —~— I The Thomas History Carl of yle Frederick . Four Yols II. of _. Prussia Chapman , called and Hall Frederick . the Great* By % fj§ The first lialf of Mr. Carlyle 7 s great work has now been for some f| has six months had its say before upon the the public subject , and ; almost so that every by dint organ of much of the readin press g- _^ jg jj of appear the book to the itself intellect , and of of a the candid opinions reviewer of others to be next upon to it impossible , it -would _* _g &gt;| to Yet say any this thing is by orig far inal the of Frederick most remarkable the Great book . _^ of _' • : - the autumn f J seas asnmch on; as nay whole , of the hoards whole of year buried ; (forfend facts are us herein Mr. B dug uckle _xip !) and in- |f exposed sentment to of fact view; and sided it shares relations , in common to different with, classes every of other mind pre . - * _^ M j$ None of -the , disquisitions many alluded to have so much impressed 3j us as that to be found in our contemporary " Fraser," for the v| month of December, in which the witty and ingenious | - _, Frederick excuses himself the Great from , on reall the y wholesome perpetrating plea a review that, exce of p the t from Life the of _^ ff j two new volumes actually on his table before him, he really knew J next venient chat about to nothin presence the g work about of two in him question or ! three Thereupon in imag a hi inar ghl he y y friend suggestive summons s, and and up proceeds the pleasant con | to - M _fj manner Prussian But for if , without history " the Fraser first than " any time professes Mr pretence . Carl ired prior yle of with himself being ignorance life . more and on thoroug the dusty hly to details up what in _t r , j ' j i | now amount of knowledor insp of critical judgment shall meaning the , " English _^ Woman us _xmknown 's Journal nor are " lay ge the claim wide ? streets Potsdam of and Berlin Sans , wherein Souci are this not story to . _^ § Mr shaped . Carl itself le , , has a mer so e deli vision htfull of our told imag us ination we wer ; yet e before of nearl as y ignorant all that / ' (Heaven y help us) as the g babe y which has , never learnt its letters. \ _^ ( . Let us therefore imitate the reviewer in " Fraser," and summon &gt; our council of friends; and this time they shall be ladies, if you _^ leasewho read " Frederick the Great" with avidity for the won- f| p derful , amount of hearty human gossip which the book contains, a ::f| membered very good and when veritable diplomacy element has vanished in any history from the , and face likel of y the to be earth re- . | | If Do we not all cherish the tit bits of history,—Fair Rosamond, i| (o&amp;ueen Catherine, and the boxing of Lady Essex,—to the exclusion of $i liio much ry, weightier scramble into matter an ? oak Did tree not after Kin a g battle Charles whose || , of name unblessed .we me- J| forgotten, the result of a series of quarrels of which " ship money | " | ¦ ¦ ¦ -H-p ¦. • •; ¦ «« ; ¦ " • m• ffl NOTICES OP BOOKS. 57 H 8 jf is dump about the ling onl the 1 y , monarch _leg and ible of , ide a who certain a inscribed asked beloved a upon famous princess our question brains , much ? about We wept know an of app the all le if English people, who was reported to have thrown a leg* of mutton | | jjj greatest at her gran deli dm ght other , any ; stray and say we ings treasure reported up, or one invented and all of , with the little the &amp; j| - children who have at .not Bucking the least ham idea Palace what ; are we our loyal real and relation affectionate s to the King peop * of le p I insisting Naples, thoug on being h somebod told without y belong delay ing" to ! the Nor liberal can ladies press alone is constantl be con y - I sidered as monopolising the taste for historical gossip. Does not the I " Times " itself declare that all historical writing is reverting* to the I detailed character of the early annals, and that the " trifles, light as | air," which are the bye words of conversation in one century, are the I basis of profound investigation in the next,—weddings, murders, I burials, and the like ? " Oh !" we oftentimes exclaim, " that we I " had a domestic novel written in the reign of Elizabeth ! " Well, I here, oh! reader, are all manner of actual old occurrences, dug up I by the historian through years of painful labor, which have been i smelted from their adherent rubbish in one of the most poetical : brains now working, and are here brought out as bright new intel¬ lectual coin for current use, stamped by the weighty hand of Thomas We are Carl free yle , . therefore, to confess, equally in virtue and in spite of our select circle of ladies, with whom we are discussing our book, that the chief interest for us in these two large volumes lies in the extraordinarily vivid pictures of domestic life in a German court of the last century. Never were the images of people who have been dead and buried for a hundred years, more thoroughly resuscitated by the mingled action of research and imagination. The father, mother, and children who dwelt in the Old Schloss of Berlin, and there lived _, and loved and quarrelled and made it up brush again, 1 like by turns any other humorous respectable and _hmxseholders pathetic, and , are the painted characters with in a "Vanity Fair" and the "Virginians " are not so distinct as those of Friedrich Wilhelm, his " Feekin," and their two eldest hopes. Compared to our interest in these people, my friends ! both ladies and gentlemen ! what do we feel for any amount of Pragmatic Sanctions that could be engrossed on parchment ? Baby Carlos' appanages, (being the Italian duchies which his termagant mother succeeded in clutching for him,) do not excite us so much as would the coral on which he may be supposed to have cut his teeth, or the exact pattern of the stiff robes in which they encased the poor little ancestor of King Bomba. We may wish that a little more of the milk of human kindness had been infused into his veins than appears to have descended to his posterity, bat furthermore, Baby Carlos, and the " seven travail throes of Nature " which preceded his getting his appanages, are of the very smallest _degree of importance to us. ¦ * f M| 58 NOTICES OF BOOKS. | elements For surel : the y tliere development are in of hist great ory constituti but two onal chief princi and p noteworth les or con y - _^ _* 1 | ditionssuch as involve the government, religion, or moral, in- A tellectual , and artistic culture of nations, and the analagous process _Jp in their great , men and women. Both elements, be it observed, are §1 we political biograp figure hical princi as , a for p being le, we excep whose cannot t in years connection estimate are measured the with nature a b g y iven passing of peop an centuries le abstract , which , _^ Jl f J and the infinite experiences of whose multitudinous members can 'jS man be summed . up into ascertainable results like those of an individual tJj J Now Mr. Carlyle assures us that the eighteenth century, in which $ quite our Famil undeserving y existed of , was any an distinct exceeding biograp ly hical false commemoration and unworthy age ; in , j -J £ fact He " a considers century its which poor has and no sordid history personages and can equall have y little unworth or none y of . If J resuscitation, and itself quite confiscate, fallen bankrupt, given up _*jj And a to confused the on auctioneer the distressing " dusk ; Jew y chaotic - manner brokers back , what sorting ground is out still " of of valuable it this at this century or moment saleable of our in . 77 _^ " _^ f § own having grandfathers some veracity , are , delineated " among whom for us " we a small chiefl company y distinguish of figures the . \ _^ was Friedrich famil On born y the of , the by his 24th name old old of S grandfather , chloss January was the at , B first 1712 erlin was king , . yet when of alive Prussia the . little This , having grandfather hero of teased our , also tale the / 4 _^ ] _| before Emperor him of having Germany 'been into merel granting y electors him of a Brandenburg kingship ; h the . Friedrich ancestors , i A _\ thin the first skinned king , , nervous had a crooked , and " regardless back from of a expense fall during ," much baby devoted hood, was to i /| his little granddaughter, elder sister of the new-born babe. The \ passed princess grandmother over of ; her , she dead time -was , seven " sister said to years Irish our own since Mr. George , Toland was too I. ; " " remarkable the not most very beautiful tall to and be | _v $ _$ brilliant somewhat held too p soirees lump," for had theolog dark hair ical , blue discussion eyes, , was and very was clever called and by * her 66 forei delicate husband gn , couTtier little 's coronation s pinch " the of republican snuff" which during queen he the . gave " pompous She her actuall a look ceremony y of took " due of a _^ J vivacious was fulmin but ancy seventeen blood ." This must , and poor have onl , lad upon y flowed y concerns died throug when us her inasmuch h the son veins Friedrich as of some Frederick Wilhelm of her _^ _^ _^ _} the Great. Friedrich Wilhelni married first a princess, who died very soon, _^ 3 and Friedrich ister secondl to our Wilhelm y George his ., own in II the first . and privacy cousin dau , g of hter Sop domestic hie to poor Dorothee life Sop , calle hia of d Hanover of his Zell wife , . _, _^ _fj 1 ;t Feekin" and among the confusion of Sophias and Charlottes _^ n , 1* "4 % NOTICES OF BOOKS* 59 :_^_vSj which appear to abound in tMs history, we will gladly adopt the | | M soubri In the quet two . volumes which we have on hand, Friedrieh Wilhelm j§ heads and Feekin of the may household be said whose to be history hero and is here heroine related , at . least They they had are a M U large two onl famil Fritz y of and sons Wilhemina and daughters and , of in whom accordance we have with concern the with bio-H y, , jf jjj grap event hical on which tendency he bestows of Mr. Carl his y attention le's imag , ination is regarded , every simp Euro ly as pean it 8 affected the fortunes or impressed the natures of this domestic p j I § proves quartet eciall . to be the A ; very the father clever characteristics so , and ver yet man a of l very sex the average so two very ladies domestic marked so ; amusing quartet the men l it y , I feminine espy ; mother and , children y pulling y, (in vain) against the father, | father sincerely anxious to do right, but invariably bent on his own | | I particular of quished Feekin , and , who view that is of perfectl temporaril right y ; well wholl y, b aware y y hysterics impersuadable of the and advantages dangerous , and onl of sickness y taking van-| | to Excellent her bed. and note-worthy qualities of character had Friedrieh | j I ri " and Wilhelm ghtness riid , chiefl of adherence soul y comprised , of to which any in the , preconceive or reverse hanging or d line black closel of y side conduct by, lay a certain , in however a hard upterrible g the consequences to softer human hearts. He was the great of practical land, economist and population of his with century the , manag most ing admirable all his exactness resources and money success , . The morrow after his father's, (Friedrieh I.,) funeral, to he the discharged lowest page all the -in- court waiting peop , and le, reduced from the his hi household ghest goldstick at once down to the humour " lowest reduces he goes footing the over remaining his of the pension indispensable fourth list ; to strikes the ." three very "In the - bone fourths like . ruthless In of that like hold humour away, and he other goes over expenses every ; department shears every of thing his administrative down, here , by house the - hundred He goes , thalers over all , there this by three the ten several , willing times even ; his to save papers half , the a thaler three . successive lists he used on that occasion, have been printed. He has satisfied himself in about two months, what the effective minimum is, and leaves it so. Reduced to below the fifth of what it was : 55000 thalers instead of 276,000." Our readers , will find few pages more interesting than those which virtue follow of this truth extract carried , if, like out us into , they its love collater to trace al branches the one of supreme justice and economy. _, They convey a lesson as potent for every head of live willing every and household to move recognise and , as have for the the inexorable our royal being master , , laws invisible of as Prussia real laws as amidst . the How comp which few licated are we machinery of any factory, and in accordance with which we I41 60 NOTICES OF BOOKS. j must square our lives, if they be not broken into fragments. Fried- m rich tyranny . Wilhelin of an , unconscious amidst much kind rigor , yet , passion held it , and as a even living domineering creed || that § " the mills of God grind slowly, but they grind exceeding small." | Feekin, his wife, is described as having a "pleasant, attractive J p In hysiognomy her portraits , which , Mr. may Carly be le finds considered a "ser better ious, comel than y, strict rather beauty plump ." , 4 i maternal lady ;" the eyes are grey, quiet, and almost sad, expressive Jj of a slow constancy. And Feekin, as our readers will find if they 4j read the book, had a most profound obstinacy of purpose, in which 1 quality her father, our George I., and her great-nephew, our George ; _^ III.also showed no lack. Poor lady, her chief desire lay in plot- ting , marriages for her children, to her subsequent great grief | _^ same discomfiture mind. , since Nevertheless Friedrich a Wilhelm pretty picture was by is no painted means of of * their the &gt;; _]J | tion domestic , thoug union h royal , and , " was it is always .to be admitted a human that one their ; * conjugal * * * rela a - | $ rare fact among royal wedlocks, and perhaps a unique one in that 1 epoch." g Well, to this loving couple, while _^ yet Prince _^ and Princess Royal, 2 was born the little Friedrich whom men now call the Great. Two j little " princekins" had previously, for a short space of time, existed ; i killed respectively, malicious tongues do say, " one by the noise of the J cannon firing for joy over it, the other by the weighty dress and 1 crown it wore at its christening." The third boy-baby is therefore &gt;i of immense and accumulated value; him will they also _| with no lack of cannon or heavy cloth of silver, but the bright little 1 spirit is not to be quenched. From a book written in later years '_{ by his elder sister "Wilhelmina we gather some idea of his infancy § and childhood, his nurses and governesses, mostly French; the j actual guardian being a certain Dame de Roncoulles, a Protestant 1 French lady who had taken similar charge of his father. With her I the beer pretty - , clever and bread , and " somewhat until he delicate was seven little boy old remained and he , did eating not 1 4 ! forget " soup her in later youthful , years, but used years to go , to her small _&gt;i parties, and call her " chere maman," and he carried to his last hour a deep trace of the French Protestant element of his earliest &lt; nurture. * wonderfull At seven y years strict old system he was of put schooling to schooling it was under ; his tutors father , and 's in a struc most - " f f) tions yet remain; how he was to learn no Latin, but arithmetic, artil- ,j up lery earl , and y in economy the morning to the , and very had bottom for pocket ; how - he money was the relentlessl slender y sum got i( of eighteen pence a month, and was taught to be clean and neat, and * \ possible yet "to ;" get all this out , of and and much into more his , clothes is given as with fast as as much is hum detail anl as y j l as if it we related humbl to y presume the little ! boys at Windsor, much happ , ier little boys ] j .J j _Notices of books. 61 I From a boyhood of such rigid discipline, to a youth, of much sad I restraint and discontent, which came to a climax in his meditated | flight, and the _execution of poor Lieutenant Katte, one is obliged I to pass rapidly "with this comment;—that whereas history has long brought a severe indictment against Friedrich Wilhelm for brutal treatment of his eldest son, the present book offers much, extenuation in the motives. That the king sincerely wished to make an upright God-fearing man of the youth, but that partly from intellectual blindness, and partly from the natural despotism of his character, in days when all parents were, ipsa facto, despots, he inflicted cruel suffering and some moral injury on his child and pupil, is painfully evident. In 1730, the young Crown Prince, while travelling in the Rhine districts with his father, made a world-famous attempt to desert, but was frustrated by the vigilance of the old officers who rode in his carriage. His intimate friend Katte, a lieutenant in the gensd'armes, had long been negotiating in foreign quarters for him, and •was to meet him from Berlin. The court-martial which followed the discovery of the plot, Katte's strange carelessness in delaying the escape which his major would willingly have afforded him, the terrible sentence of death upon the Crown Prince, and two years of fortress arrest to Katte, are all told in the most wonderfully graphic manner. But Friedrich Wilhelm, who seemed through these months " like a man possessed by evil fiends," wandering about in the night-time from room to room, imagining he was haunted, and flying into the wildest excesses of anger, wotdd not spare Katte, and decreed his death as guilty of high treason. That Frederick himself did not suffer according to legal sentence seems to have been owing to the desperate interposition of the councillors who surrounded the king, and that of foreign courts, who all pleaded for mercy. The Kaiser sent an autograph letter, and at length the scale was turned and the Crown Prince allowed to live. The death of Katte, and the cruel order that the prince should witness the execution, (an order evaded into seeing him pass to the scaffold,) the violence with which the queen and "Wilhelmina were ' treated during this unhappy time, owing to their English leanings, and to their long desired scheme for a double marriage with the English prince and princess—in short, the frantic state of mind into which the king fell, is perhaps the best known episode of the whole history. For a hundred and thirty years it has stamped Friedrich "Wilhelm in the popular mind as a sort of paternal ogre. We have no wish to extenuate the sin of thus dealing with an offence which was provoked by his own previous harshness. But it should blind none to the extraordinary powers . and virtues really possessed by this man, to his stern sense of truth, his unwearied industry, the morality of his private life in an age when profligacy ran open riot in high places, and to the general wisdom and conscientious care with which he sought the welfare of his people. 62 NOTICES OF BOOKS. j read How it who beautiful wish to is know the story what of Friedrieh the Salzburg Wilhelm Pilgrim in his s ! better Let inind those I j ing ycou ears ld of l accom at the er, the p nourishing lish Crown for the Prince condition benefit , writing of of his to the Voltaire fellow once - desolate creatures , says, in . Prussian speak Some | - J 1 Lithuania" All this that I tell you of is due to the king ; he made | perintended regul lans ati and ons , himself full the of execution got wisdom them , carried of he them not to ; onl fulfilment it y was gave he , an the that d spared orders | devised | but su- 1 ing com p care p beings nor enses p ,a , to i who ns secure , nor owe happ immense to him iness alone expenditures and that life to they this , nor have half p million rom possessions ises, of nor think | and re - - j ft felicity in the world." | We must not omit a more detailed mention of the double-marriage I project worse than , thoug nothing h it , never for it had occasioned much solid much foundation of the domestic , and came trouble to f _M | own which Qaeen hter kith beset Feekin to and the her kin famil , with eldest , had y a of set not the her hew altogether Old heart and Schloss niece on unusual . uniting the Prince leaning : her eldest of towards Wales son and and her | j p I l the daug Princess Amelia of nep England. The , young people themselves 1 thoug appear h we also do to not have find ardentl that either y de pair sired had the ever success met! of It the is project certain ; M fj that his mother persuaded " Crown Prince Friedrieh, who was always § his instance mother to 's write boy, to and Queen who Caroline perhaps needed of England little , lett bidding | | ers, one or several , thrice-dangerous letters ; setting forth (in | deathless affection to that beauty of the world, her majesty's divine j daug fud firm ge hter resolution by her the p Princess icture heFriedrieh and Amelia one's , ( Crown own a very im Prince paragon agination has of ; ) young and formed likewise | women , and , the the fj I permitted srow he hereby , or else makes never , : E any ither of , the to daug wed that hters cele , of stial Eve in creat this ur world e when ." f I | But his vows were of small avail; for the Kaiser was unwilling, -}| and set his emissaries to work in the court and " tobacco-parliament | " ) _ind f Berlin after , to poison and cons Friedrieh of interminable Wilhelm's length mind , against and dreadful the plan do- ; : If | nestic convulsions pros the double marriage comes to " fearful shi| - vreck" and Wilhelmina , is suddenly wedded to Prince Friedrieh of f Baireuth , . WiUielmina's wedding has a chapter to itself, a chap | ter ull r arious of suitors gossip for and the detail hand , and of the not Princess unpleasing Royal , sinc of e Prussia among | | a the far vorse miht have been chosen" for he proved a very rational, | Lonorable Lomestic bargain g , and eli than gible Princ young e Frederick prince , ," and of Eng privatel land. y a " much Who knows better | § hem &gt;ut, of this all the final offers mode she st had honest , ' four one ' or may three be ' crowned intrinsicall heads y the ' among | jj _'ake , your portion, if inevitable, and be thankful!" | ¦ ¦1 ¦ ¦ .M.! •¦« ¦ v¦_&amp; 'ft _D m Inotices or books. 63 Ij _r _j | and As barel to y Friedrich secure of , his Crown life, he Princ , for e, the whom year previous we left in to dire Wilhelmina disgrace 's , I •wedding', is in a sort of industrial durance at the little town of _| 1 princi Ciistrin ples , where ' 7 but he in has the form a hmisehold of a court arrang . _- He ed on " wears " rigorousl his sword y thrifty , but ** p has rince no put sword upon -tash his , (porte good -epee behaviour ,J much l again ess an ; officer * 's * unif *orm and , a mere must recover his uniform, by proving himself gradually a new man." The kins' once more tries to make of him the man he would fain see him. " He is to sit in the government board here, as youngest had royal the Rath way better ;— revenues no of see manag other well in career the ing how country Domain he permitted will ; ) Lands do humble . - Let , Two (a work him very elder , but learn princi Raths useful pal Economics are ; it appointed em which of and the he I to instruct him in the Economic Sciences and Practices, if he show | | i| p facult " erior y de and gree ' dili , having gence ;— every which the motive 20 in th fact of to try November he ." turns Here out 1 he 7 to 31 remains do on , in which a until su-| j j occasion _Wllhelmina of Wilhelmina he is s suddenl wedding y who , allowed was to ardentl appear attached in Berlin , , to to her the , immense brother. joy Elizabeth Presently he Chri , too stina , is , marrie of Brunswick d out of hand Bevern y , to , aged the "insi sevent pid een Princess , with " a If I will fine comp be too lexion serious and for a very him bad but toilette seems on . the He is whole dreadfull to submit y afraid to she his Jj 1 fate with resignedl ect and y.; and attention he always , and behave what more d to her could , throug be _expected h a long under life, I j I I the Reinsberg A circumstances resp charming , where picture ! he studied is g , iven , and of wrote his Friedri young poetry ch' married s , and gave hou for s concerts ehold music at , f long and correspon sternly repressed ded with by Voltaire the king . , had here full p passion lay. He had won , | 1 the which confidence he learnt of his to disp father lay, b and y the the marked four year ability s of Reinsberg and prudence life I I I in the were Great perhaps Frederick the the admir happ were able iest long sketch of his and of whole full Voltaire of career honor thrown , . thoug We into h must the the days notice form of , I of passing a very long , biographical note, which this , section of the history ' f I contains With . Friedrich Wilhelm's deathand the accession of the young I I I pathos king leniency * these ; volumes towards two volumes public which and conclude it is private mo ; st , volumes despotism easy to rep abuse , and lete for imag with partisanshi inative humor fill and p - , j continu ings-in e of to the read outlines until of libraries fact, yet are which no .more the , world as one will of assuredl the most y \ graphic and fascinating works ever given to the world. ¦j 64 NOTICES OF BOOKS. _^Ll Mrs geria . Bodichon considered . as Published a Winte a r t tlie Residence " English for . Woman the Eng 's lish Journal . By " Dr Office . and , 14a, Princes Street, Cavendish Square, London. Moee time tlian we could have wished lias elapsed between the publication season of of Al this iers work is yet and unexp its review ired by in its our two pages most , but beautiful the cool I monthsand tourists g who are so happy as to- have leisure in spring Tum may ours yet , profit of war by have the hints blown it over contains will ; assuredl while next witness autumn the , if usual the j 1 , y p H troop icturesque Algeria of V human erne , long and thas known swallows blood of y late to "wars "fl the y ars ing illustrated Eng become , fi lish ying onl , fl b a y y ying lace as the south the daring of scene . winter " pen of resort cil those of I I j j for orace the alleviation , of pulmonary ye disease, and p a new field of explora- { raneaa tion for in the their luxurious yachts, wanderers and cast anchor who can when float it p about leases the them Mediter in each - | ¦ § of the classic waters consecrated in history and renowned in song. § The little book now under our notice is the only guide-book yet J _published title from the in Eng quantity land for of the compact French and colony varied , and information fully deserves which that it | j contains. A prefatory note tells us that part of its contents | " been Al U been Al giers gerie written translated : _f 6 Etudes and in ' H from sur yg lish iene &amp; the Al b a gerie suivre following him et ." en JO Al To udfri ' works _gerieJ his que wife , 9 and of ' Considerations Dr other (the . Bodiehon well parts | -known sur of jJ 1 artist, Barbara Lei Eng gh Smith y ) the guide-book is indebted for its | bion branslation of the , kind arran especiall gement, y and useful a quantit to Eng y lish of miscellaneous ladies landing | informa in | the - unknown iive sketches territory of the of town Alg and iers. country The , last from chapter the pens contains of an descri English p- j I _household located, a mile from Algiers in the winter of 1856-7. | _belonge Chapter d successivel the first y give to s Carthage an historical , Rome sketch , Constantinop of Algeri | le a , , and | _Mahometan invaders. Of the piracies which made its very name | severe errible check for many was given hundred by Lord years Exmouth every , child who, in has 1816 heard , " ; obtained | the | a _lomp Lve lete one victory thousand over the Christian Algerine slaves fleet . , Other and compelled hostilities the | continued f| _p o take up place between Algiers and Christian nations, (including the I Jnited &gt; lie ecame 4th States of a province July ;) , and 1830 of , . at " France leng It th was ; ., Al after , however giers a fifteen making , long years before its | ' submission war the , | French them on % onq _Jonstantine uered the lying whole to the of the east three , and Oran provinces to the now west possessed of Alg | iers. Each j pact lird eograp Chapter may chap hy ter be , the its said treats animals second to of have the , gives its been climate botany us torn the and , piecemeal present agriculture its influence state from , and of the on | Al trade Europeans geria . | . ; The , f % '1 . 1: NOTICES OF BOOKS. 65 and contains meteorological tables. Ample details regarding tiie health of the colony, and the hygienic regimen desirable to be pursued by Europeans in the different seasons of the year, are given at i leng enables th; him and to T)r speak . Bodichon with 's authority long experience on all these as a points resident . p Chap hysician ters four and five are descriptive of native manners and customs, and of various points of interest in the country. Here is an anecdote told in the course of a ride on horseback:— take " We our turn horse seawards s into the _^ and blue go crystal down waves to the ; sand then y shore continue for s our ome route minutes along , to I If the carrubas scen flat t the land air and w which it lentis h an borders cex , q fier uisi y t the el scarlet y de sea licate . or " We perfume bri pass ght , b rose y lanes oran -colored shaded ge gar with d geraniums ens olives which , , H f| the in scrambling the eyes sunshine , . wild i Those ; in clos the dazzling e b hedges y, purp , li l g e g leaming ht an s d on whit tou he e t iris o M f oorish in dark delic sh h ia ous ouses dow masses s , , or those burning reli blue eve shadowsthis luxuriant vegetation, this azure sea, are enough to make us all " drunk _' I was , with thinking pleasure of ; my you visit are too yesterday dull for / such rejoined a day Lad , Lad y y A A ., .' &lt; to that I windows Moorish house and three you domes see hig surrounded h upon Boujereah with a hed there of ; cacti that a one row with of blac no k | I m Arabic it cypresses can hardl to , standing see y be a Moorish said round to be lad it , alive , looks of . distinction like I went what there in a fact with ge it is Mrs widow , a . tomb T , — and , , for who her those speaks little in 1 I I on girl _\ ; Mrs their , . T dreary — was liv ofes little mad use y e an , for impress the Moorish ion , up young on ladie me much w shic have h alik , I very can ethe no little t ladies shake to | I I clothes always converse cost ask ab if ; out and you ; when all are the marrie you Moorish d have , how families asked many them children are the very you same have questions , and , what , there your is _| | I _$ barbarous th little at '' Le is more to Doeteur be state to known be , : they said ' That ab .' are out is simp their in truth le lives , and all . all they The very have wife much of to a say alike French ; , like you workman all soon peop learn le in is all a a _f fj i thousand thousand visited. times I times attended more more her civilized comp father licated than the and the Dey richest interesting , in his Moorish last . I illness know lady, : the hers is a lad , being is y a you sad a | i ) | | history marriage a young . g if Her irl the of father fourteen Dey , would the ; Dey the give , brother when , him In quite his of less daug the an than g old hter irl a man agreed in , exchange demanded the to g old ive , his and in marriage sister without the two in _| 1 ~| marriages brother any alleged that to cause ok his place , sister sent immediatel back should his ' young be y. repudiated wife his to her wife in brother this year and manner . she It was so , Dey enraged that the , widow out the of 1 revenge lie sent back the Deys daughter, , ;i you ' saw.' # * # m • * I I teacher "We and found conductor at Lady of A the .'s Madame Moorish school Luce, the for g ori irls ginator , the first and Christian energetic :| $ I j no All woman one honor , who who to has her has made name not examined and a breach success her with in to schools the her a prison forehead endeavor , can life be which , of aware the the difficulty . reminded Eastern Madame of women which me Luce of . . | is a clever, agreeable woman, | Caroline CMsholmo" | | Here is the result of a lion hunt, several days journey inland ; — | | able u . We Our found accommodatio , on reaching n th Teniet at ni , g that ht did it is not the deserve most wretched the name place . My imag room in-I VOL. III. Jf w 1 66 OPEN COUNCIL. I tioned was walls a . miserable myself The next in the shed day shelter , , with with, my of a a mudd courage doorway y floor a , little to , ske and frozen tch water a g out roup running of of me A , rabs I down had , when sta the - __ ff ; 1 | our ' Lion landlor !' I d cried came alive running at the towards idea' me no , and where said *? , ' c Have They you hav seen e taken the | him up ' J| to I rushed show to towards the Commandant , the camp as , an fast d w , as ill Ibr , could ing him go, to and the met village the directl people y| coming .' :j cur who down ious , with . t There o bandaged see t he he was Arab eye , the s s come , seemed huge roun beast to d quiver an , d hang poke under in him g the across with load th their .e It back fingers wasof extremel a , calling horse y , j jj H towards him all them kinds , began of bad to names neigh . and The , show horses signs , of as intense the wind fear blew . All | the scent S Iin before the " village the lion were was wild broug , barking ht in, and they tearing __. had scented about like him mad and things began . Long their : f Jj uproar Lest . " , however, we should frighten fair readers froin | 1 this ¦ •I beautiful landwe will conclude with assuring them | ers, civilized and its nei tranquillit ghbourhood , y, that for many Engli miles sh, ladies around , as , is we in a ourselves state of | have such § tested they are to mi , be may ght obt in ride ained the , walk , heart allowing , or of sketch old a Eng four alone land months , ; with and ' residence as that much _" return impunity in Al ticket geria as s , Jf j p from Mr. Puddick, agent to the Messageries Imperiales, 314a, § Oxford Street, London." Wnat would the great men who in ancient | days made famous the northern shores of Africa by their | , their learning, and their skill in the art of warfare, have said to | the notion of a return ticket for Algiers ? f Jt XI—OPEN COUNCIL. • - I ¦&gt;?s [As these pages are intended for general discussion, the Editors do not hold ¦ j }r!f themselves responsible for the opinions expressed.]] if To the Editor _.of the English Woman's Journal. | tnarried si _j flfer g Your ning Madam a few " life correspondent A remarks , Constant that I upon hope Reader in that you the ," will communication last takes number allow such me of , singular . anot the her Eng vie " lishwoma co ws ns of tan marriage t n | rea 'sJo d | er urna ," to l, |I § In the tion first is taken place, is th not e sen correctl tence in Passin ted: g " Events the law of itself January should , to be which re- 1 I i _model _excep nto lone " , l " incompatibility ed being , giving arbitraril as , in (of P y russ temper modified iadi ) y vorce alone and quo . restricted " upon the b ground y "A Constant of incomp lieader atibility | " 1 1 _&gt; how atibility Now . " Other , temper " is b and y ," n thoug very o mean h obvious a s th very e so frequent causes le cause , mental and as a disastrous few , moral moments , and cause 7 reflection ph of ysical " incom , will will - § § I eaders eadily suggest some of themselve so delicate s to and the distressing minds of all a nature enlightened , that nothing and thoughtful short of fj % , opeist council. 67 divorce upon the ground of incompatibility alone—that incompatibility to be In determined Prussiaas by elsewhere the parties -where themselves facility —can of ensure divorce redress on the . ground of inover compulsion compatibility intervals , whim , alone of longer , or is the caprice or law , shorter , of by the rendering duration land, , care a the succession condition is taken of upon to appeals guard which , against spread such divorce can be obtained. discussed There are . Either but two as points in the of view Eoman from Catholic which marriage Churchas can a sacrament be legitimatel and y consequently indiss , oluble, or as a civil contract, binding , only under certain , conditions. and The surel law y no of Protestant more legitimate England cause looks for upon the dissolution marriage of as this a civil contract contract can , be adducedthan the cordial desire of both parties to be released, care being taken, as just , stated, to prevent coercion, whim, or caprice, from actuating the The partie notion s concerned that c ' . si man who had grown tired of his wife would have nothing to do but to indulge his ill-humour and make himself disagreeable till dation the in poor nature creature which was is driven to to sue doubt for is a an divorce argument ," if it the have more any in foun favor - united of divorce to the ; for man surel , in y whose no woman open nature , worth she could y , of the believe name so , would base a care possibility to remain to lurk. As to the extraordinary confession on the part of " A Constant Header," in that her " one age, great the object comfortable " women position have in that marriage her beauty is, " to won secure for to her the woman in her them youth," unfortunatel I can only say sometimes that thoug — h this we cool hear and of interested mercenary marriages avowal of ,— the see , y, , of uses all of honest a pretty and face honorable iC out-Herods women Herod protest ," most and I strong for one ly , against and in it the . name , I am, Madam, Yery truly yours, P. D. To the Editor of the English Woman's Journal* Madam, . ment Many the years want ago of I which endeavored is much , unsuccessfull felt at the y present , to organize time, namel an establish y, a self- - women supporting , have home an for advocate gentlewomen in the of " smal Englishwoman l incomes. 's Now Journal that " we I feel Eng again lishof induced and such trust an to that establishment attempt they the will same be were responded object it promptl , and to b by y y those making commenced willing known . to May my avail views we to themselves npt aid , I us hope look in towards dear madamas the noble champion of our sex, the most formation you . , of I ventur a plan e which to , submit may (as own much ideas as possible on this ) meet subject the mer views ely to of elicit persons those of othersand thus many my valuable hints may be gained. I propose London then or that its vicinit a large , y, rents roomy being house proportionabl be taken in y an low unfashionable , and that the part rental of of chamber each room reserving be fixed a large according general to assembl size, every y-room lady and having a dining a separate -room ; bed the - li chosen There ghting must from , and be amongst heating of course ourselves of the an two honorary . last Considering to be secretary at the the expense , and love a of lad of privacy the y superintendent establishment connected , . offer with as home regards comforts the meals amongst ; taking the * them English in common ladies, I would know decidedl not _^ what y p be lan the to G8 OPEN COUNCIL. j| ' ' '"si ¦ • ' 1 mos howe t ver econom tha i tcal a , clever " but I fe man ar this and would his wife be obj accus ected tomed to b t y o many cook and . Suppose provide | , ;l supp under largel ly take y those , were to ladies furnish engage who d tlie , should and fewwho prefer domestics for dining a cer necessary , , tain as is sum , common a paid table monthl d' in hote France , y and would , also in _ji jl j their tion own . The apartment other meals . In could the be above easil case y arranged , each . lady would pay her pro- : f M | por As society is one of the great Wants of our class, we shall be gratified in ;| carr our y dail out y her intercourse own ideaand of enjoyment general . reunion Once a in month the evening it would when be agreeable each | can | , invi no doub te their t to every friends one at , to a join trifling a sinrp , exp ly ense conduc . t Oed ther soiree pleasan to whi t little ch all partie could s | | mi concer ght t also or le be cture occasionall in the y formed winter , as a months pic-nic . in In summer shortI , or think attending it would a | j home depend . upon I confess ourselves myself to quite areary render at a the loss establish how to m arrange ent a happy the , preliminary and intelle | steps | prop but towards I er doubt commencement the not formation that some . of of such your a society clever as correspondents I have suggested can in point this out letter | the , | § I am, Madam, | Your obedient Servant, E. B_. '$ I February 12th, 1859. I v_$a ¦ _jijs ITo the Editor of the English Woman?s Journal. I Madam | those ques I avail tion who and may myself , to ha venture ve of any the hin an space ts opinion or in suggestions your . Wh Journal y is to there offer which to no your is outcry kindl readers y raised offered , to ask when to a | f 1 under men invade the term the " province manly," of while women if women , and accep seek t occupa work tions which quite cannot suitable come to | _^j meaning th spoken eir sex abou , like bu t t many hi their thert similar o losing in the 1 pe their hands t words "of womanliness of men the , we day have . ," a a vast word deal often of nonsense without | i § | | one Among advocates the variou the art s of occupations hair dressing fitted , which for women like man , I y am other surprised feminine that trades no | . |j are is grea to be tly seen if no in t wholl perfumers y monopolised ' shopsselling by the the stronger articles sex requisite . Women for that it is true part If I l of ocks a lad , nor y's even toilet cutting , but they the hair are not of children to be seen . Moustached combing or youths brushing or bearded ladies j f men maidens , are , t of hose chi who ldren h ,av ore of the elderl pleasure y ladies of arrang . Boys ing heat the the chevehires curling irons of youn andg ' ; f _| men use them. . ? bresses Is it u when manl hundreds y" to stand of women "behind know a lady not 's chair how , to cur gain ling aan livelihood d perfuming ? This her % I _occup Ifat ,ion active so lig wom ht and an easy trained , coul for d no such t sure work ly invalidate would open their a " shop womanliness , or in the . " | | irst instance any a roomwhere ladies and children could comfortably get their | l vhite air cu -aproned t or dressed men , and I , for youths one woul who d be perform deligh at ted present to be spare that d di t gnifie he sig d ht task of the . 1 I I am, Madam, &gt; Yours, etc., A. 1V OPEN _COUNCIL. 69 To the Editor of the English Woman's Journal* Madam, ori Tlie ginators originators of the " of Women tMs Journal 's Petition are " iustl to parliament y proud of in having 1856 * -7 been , which also con the - Eil tributed _^ coininonl so greatl y called y to the procure _"protection the insertion clause of ," that by which clause hun in dreds the new of deserted Divorce wives have been secured in the possession of their earnings and property. following Much good extract has been from done the , " but Evening that Herald much of " still of February remains the to be 5th effected will show the . " _Worship Street.—Sevej_^ Teaks Misery.—Henry Jay, a thick-set, morose Hammill -featured with assaulting man, twent his y wife -seven , Mary years Ann of Jay age . , was The comp charged lainant before whose Mr. , b general y a pretty appe little arance girl clearl and y an denoted elderly anxiety respectable and privation woman, , who was evinced accompanied great solicitude for her. She gave the following evidence :—My husband, the prisoner bring him , is here a chair upon carver a warrant , and for we assaulting live in Chatham me on the Grardens 2nd instant _, Hoxton . About . I twelve o'clock in the day he came home intoxicated, and said I had taken a shilling shilling for out a of long his time pocket . . He I insisted denied it that , and I observed had got it that , and I had swore not that seen he a would have it out of me. He then struck me on the back of the head with his inched fist, and me in repeatedl the back y on several the face times . . He After also that forced he broke me on to a the drawer bed and and p hit me with a portion of it on the shoulder. I am still suffering up great pain years old from , was the ; he present attack had £ , 1200 at particularl the with time me . y in . By the A the month shoulder magistrate after . M our : y I have child wedding , been wlio lie married is commenced six s years even ill-using me. I have been a victim to his indiscretions. At one time he can kept earn nine from men thirty at work shillings , but is to now thirty obliged -five to shillings work as a we a ek journeyman , yet has pled . ged He lamp everything -post. . On He the says evenin that he g of will the starve 1st instant me out , , he and took calls my me onl a y ?79 walking blanket ness away produced , and returning seventy in dup the licates night, relating asked me to , " property Are you of cold every , dear description Wit- , the from the ill prisoner jewellery -used woman had to often bed was and beaten questioned body her linen b daughter y , the all worth ple , dged who y mag , b althoug y istrate him. h , and _The she stated had mother twice that of furnished served, that their althoug house h , she was had each been time advised deprived to punish of it; her and husband the wife , she here always obrefused vated to , believing do as I did that , for " I time reall would y had improve lost a shilling him." ; but Prison I'll er _iell : I was you aggra what - , be I'll when allow I her am eig at ht work shillings . Wife a week : I — cannot well say take ten his shillings word — , sir but ,— then impossible it must . Mr conduct . Hammill as detailed , who repeatedl bthe mi y s manifested erable wife his and indignation mothertook at not the the scoundrel slihtest 's notice of , the profFerred y terms, but sent the offender to the , House of Correction g for the full term of six months with hard labor, at the same time kindly directing that £2 should be given to the victim of his brutality." out When of prison this ruffian every , penny who has that alread the unhappy y squandered woman his may wife have 's £1200 earned , comes and to laid his be absence b deserted y, every , will , shilling there be at is his nothing given disposal her to by prevent ; her for friends unless her husband a or woman charitable from is fortunate living persons in idleness , enoug during h woman on her earnings can obtain , , and an disposing order from of the her mag property istrate in which dissipation protects . her In France property a husb and earnings and is allowe even d whil to e living ear in under court the and same show roof his with reasons her hu wh sband the . order The should not be anted app but if he is d to be idle or a drunkard y the magistrate has gr it in his , power to protect prove effectually the industrious, or 70 OPEN COUNCIL.. wealthy wife ; for after the order is granted, the husband who should possess lik himself any other of his robb wife er 's . earnings If a petition or property to parliament , would were be liable got up to , pray punishment ing that the extent discretionary , it would power surely of receive the police thousands magistrates of si mi gnatures ght be . increased If granted to this , it would be a step prove towards a blessing yet greater indeed improvements to the working in women the law of Eng , by land revealing , and , mi from ght the domestic number oppression of applications is practised for relief in this that country would . ensue Might , the I suggest extent to that which the organization of such a petition would be a work worthy of the Editors of this Princes _well Journal be undertaken Street ?—but if if there their by some be time of be who the too , ladies fully who _occuxiied frequent for and such the leisure reading a task to , - devote rooms it might in to such a useful and , noble cause any . possess energy being For a myself, I fear I must be an idle spectator of _CounsrTiRY other peop Resident le's labors . , To the Editor of the English Wo?nan &gt; s Journal. _Deajs, Madam, I have read with great interest in your last number (for December, 1858) behalf of the " of Eng Life lishwoman Assurance 's Journal . During " the the app existence eal to all of heads the of "Waverley families on " important (devoted also object to female of human advancement weal) I addressed as well to as you to other a letter objects with affecting suggestions the for the origination of a fund by which the immediate and pressing necessities or of boy a widow -brothers 's famil , on y, the or demise helxDless of dependents the widow or of female a sing support le female of , say such sisters little household entirely orp , mi hans ght , but be relieved by her ; own not contributions by appeal to charity , during on her behalf working of the life now , on the death of other (widows or single females) members of the sisterhood of which I would here suggest the formation. be three Simp intimated shillings ly a women b should her 's during or be ladies payable life ' club . for If , twenty her to which famil die y , on or annuall the member decease y out s thereof of of two any , thousand as memb should er, members£3 y only would be paid to the club by each member, but £300 would be , secured to each bereaved family. _35_Tow if a person aged fifty wishes to assure her life for £100 only, which is a very inadequate sum, her as (funeral it £4 mi and expenses ht upwards be calle being d annuall three added y times ; to whereas immediate that b amount y the famil Mutual y would wants Famil be ,) y it guaranteed Aid will Club cost , g, , lection making deducting the them onl whole y aware the of which expenses of the w death t ould of postage not , £8 exceed 6s. to 10d the £ . 10 , and two leaving other thousand for expenses the member bereaved of col s - , bound family , to £290 continue at least members . The intended for two recipients after the of , this death benefit of the widow should be or other female support of the family, and years thus secure to the next bereaved , the same sum: but the contributions on each death being so comparatively small as on three such terms shiUings . , And no daug to thi hter s no or doubt even they son woul would d _object superadd to such efforts engagement to obtain a the new permanent of medical member examinations in the room of would the one be removed _obviated . for By a such mutual a plan aid society annoyance would not be necessarily so anxious about medical , certificates which sh are are to of secure the _promts to parties of the entirel company y uninterested . A contribution in the welfare of two shillings of families by their each person, besides the three shillings payable at the death of each member, BBUI' _^- ''_^ '' ¦ _^ h _+ "-rtfc^^^**»"*»^Trni_^l'r_^^ m " i " " i ¦ . i i i -- i i ¦—.....¦¦.-¦-.¦ -ii . . _. _ _^^^^^^^^^^^^ _^^^^ I PASSING EVENTS. 71 I |j if mi would ttee near , a pay etc t hand . a secretary The or b secretary letter , room of mig for member ht holding also s in be monthly London collector . meetings There , either are of personall the however eom y - , | ¦M matters of detail , on y which , more extended discussion might be , entered , ¦ | % f i | into an any d am committee hereafter dear . Madam that I would could offer be formed myself as for provisional carrying honorary out this _secretary proposition to , if , — ' , Yours faithfully, 1 11th January, 1859. S. E. M. I I with great P.S burial . horrors —In order societies have to been guard a certificate enacted against in of the this the very Christian medical possibility Eng attendant lan of d foul in of connec p the lay, t de io as n - j ff | I men ceased t during , and of illness a fema , , should le frien be d or forthwith nurse, as furnishe to due d care to the and committee kind treat on - | 1 th clergyman e decease after , accompany perusal ing . the registry of death, and transmitted by the • ¦ : : • ¦ ." ;_V| I To the Editor of the English Woman's Journal, I Madam, | | | : of In " women this February who have number contributed ,—article , , Colleges and that for largel Grirls, y — , in to the the enumeration foundation j |f I the and endowe writer endowment d Sidney concludes of Sussex colleges " finall College y for " , with the Cambridge use Frances of . men Sidney But in such , both who instances univer munifi sities centl have y " | | I been not as did com added e Camden to to an Trinity end speaking . College " To of the , this Cambrid honor noble ge of donor , the by present ) a a lad scholarshi y now age" deceased { p we has may latel ; say and y , | of onl a y student last December thereversed , another in astronomy presented , £ and 10,000 for towards the advancement the maintenance of that | I I sympathie science generall s and y memorie in , the s university , and so I . trust True it has that ever both been were ; and guided if the by time private has | I it now must come be b for y hel men ping to out aid their women plans in corporate which knowle or educational dge acquired establishment by personal s 1 enjoyment or privation suggest.¦ % . ... • . A. E. IXII.—PASSING- EVENTS. 1ft " ~——ii it | |fj House Q,uee:n" of Elizabeth Commons t what is said had to passed have inquired since she of last a saw certain him S , peaker and to of have the | I received So say for we answer ; four " weeks five weeks have have gone passed since ." the last record of " Passing 1 else Events than "— the and fact , anxiousl itself to y note as the . Parliament papers have has been met scanned various , small there business is little I , | I I has has Sister been attended has got been throug its broug first h; ht and the upon Bill second the for Legalising tap reading is, the , and usual Marriage every amount with oneknows a of Deceased pros , that and Wife when cons 's | | having cussed - and passed rejected the Commons . Throug it h goes this to form the the Upper bill House will pass , it _^ will again there and be again dis- , I ! until for themselve the time s is each ripe man , and and peop womali le are set according at liberty to to his decide or her upon conscience the _question . , 72 PASSING EVENTS. _*_&amp;• Baron Rothschild lias taken his seat in the House of Commons, and Alder-- man Salomons has been elected for Greenwich. * threw The oil oracular the announcement troubled waters of Louis of European Nax_^oleon, politics u 12Envp in ire the c' earl est la y part paix of ," emperor no the peace month a . nd upon " . su Let The bjec us revision ts beware , and this of that the cloud we treaties cry on not the of , horizon " 1815 peace is , , now a peace tempting no , where bigger theme there than for is a tions man The 's filed hand business in , may March in break the -May Divorce in , tempest and Court August over has , of the become last heads year so of , overwhelming which all Europe were . in that the peti list - letter calculation to for the Novem to great the ber of loss " , Times and the and postponed , probable , detriment " says : amount for " of The February the -fa of ct parties is business , that are concerned there again in has the obli . been g new ed A t an solicitor o Probate s utter tand , over mis in and a - , un Divorce defende Courts d cases . The of w Novemb hich not er one list was for hear the Full dalthoug Court h contained the witnesses thirty in - most nine of of which them were ten onl summoned , have been . The heard February . What list the , contained next list seventy will contain -three cases may , y be From conj resse ectured India dthe . the " Begum intelli and gence her is followers cheering. having The rebellion gone by ni in g Oude ht marche is entirel s into y Nepaul Clive supp is , about " partl , to y forcing return , home partl , y " bribing to lay his her title way." and It fortune is rumoured at the that feet Lord of ness and some members and fair excitement lady and ." Next constituents . The Monday government are is on looked the Reform qui forward vive Bill . to is with to be con broug siderable ht forward eager- , great ing Leaving at step the in leg Mary social islator lebone reform s to Institute leg about islative . to be Elizabeth reform inaugurated , let Blackwell us dwell on the for , " M Wednesday a .D moment ., with follow on whose the - interesting Journal" for biograp Aril hy 1858 we will presented on the our afternoon readers of in that the day " Eng deliver lish Woman the first 's of three lectures p on , Physiology , and Medical Science, to ladies only. A deep interest the Bris seven tol in but years Miss passed of Blackwell her many last years ' absence s labors of her from has youth been her native graduall in America country y gaining . . After She ground is gaining a native during her of p degree We Eng ital land hope . , She in , that and medicine again passed she quitted will at some Geneva be us induced months in College 1851 as to , but a remain , student New returned and York in practise St among . State Bartholomew us , among she last revisited autumn her 's Hos own - . her countrywomen lace across , the as her Atlantic sister . , Dr For . Emil particulars y Blackwell of the , is lectures well fitted we to refer supp our ly readers p to the prospectus printed on the first page of our advertising sheet, where We also they desire will find to call every attention detail_. to a very beautiful and ingenious apparatus in photography, called the New Pistol Camera, by which (while it photographs in of small objects any in obj motion ect of s can till li be fe wi taken thin . the The range whole of larger apparatus cameras , including ) pictures and camera all , box necessary of a dozen chemicals glasses for , (concave sensitizing glasses , develop are ing used , and for the fixing negative , can be ,) stowed away ready for immediate use in an overcoat pocket or lady's travelling This - perfect bag. little instrument is peculiarly suited . to the use of ladies and travellerswho may by means of it bring home in their pockets dozens of inventor views Hogarth and of , Mr the _}_Dortraits . _Haymarket Skaife , which of Yanbrugh will can shortl be reproduced y House have , it Blackheath on on sale almost , and , purposes its any accomp scale , . giving lished Mr. tained all lectures who of are , and Mr interested . instruction Hogarth , , in and thi as to s to beautiful which its use we , the and cordiall p available articulars y commend art of . which the attention can be ob of - </TEXT>
