The Annual Reports of the Governesses' Benevolent Institution , from
1843 to 1856 . In casting a preliminary glance over the vast field of
female paid labour in this country , a field which may be roughly
calculated to embrace about three millions of women , or half its
female population , we are well assured that one department will
chiefly interest the majority of our readers ;—namely the
Profession of the Teacher . And this for an obvious reason , that it
is the only profession open to an educated woman of average ability .
Few are aware of the extent to which women of the lower classes are
employed in undomestic labour , in the factory , the workshop , and
the field ;—but while all our lady readers have received instru
ction from some class of governess , there is probably not one who has
not also some relative or cherished friend either actually engaged in
teaching , or having fo rmerly been so engaged . We find families who
have no link with the army , the navy , or the church ; others , who
in all their wide-spread connection , have kept aloof from
trade;—but from the highest to the lowest rank in which a liberal
education is bestowed , we shall find some cousin or friend who is a
governess . Indeed , it is not a question of rank at all , for the
unmarried female members of the small merchant ' s family enter the
profession from natural necessity , and the fortuneless daughters of
the highly connected clergyman have often no other resource . It is a
platform on which middle and upper classes meet , the one struggling
up , the other drifting down . If a father dies , or a bank breaks ,
or a husband is killed ,- _^— if brothers require a college
education to fit them for one of the many careers open to an M . A .,
or orphan nephews and nieces are cast helpless upon a woman's heart ,
here is the one means of bread winning to which access alone seems
open , —to which alone untrained capacity is equal or pride
admits appeal . This brief statement sums up the conclusion to which
many melancholy narratives of dire suffering and long struggle furnish
VOL . I . B ample evidence ; and there is perhaps no social reform for
which ¦ the tinie is so ripe , or which English naen and women would
so eagerly carry out , as any reasonable plan for getting rid of this
particular form of destitution , arising in great measure from the
overcrowding of the Profession of the Teacher . To the attainment of
this end two distinct modes of action are available , with a heavy
penalty on the neglect of either . We must relieve existing needs ,
and if possible prevent their recurrence ;—the one course demands
the best sympathies of the heart , the other the best exertions of the
intellect . Towards the first object , that of meeting facts as they
are , a vast effort has been made during the course of the last
fifteen years . The story is told in the series of reports which we
have placed at the head of this article , and it is evident that in
rallying , so to speak , the members of the profession round this
group of institutions , an indirect effect to the great advantage of
its general status has also been produced , and a certain esprit de
corps infused , which has a strong tendency to raise the rate of
attainment and the rate of salary . We will condense the leading facts
of this narration , which places in the strongest , the most startling
light , the extent of that suffering which the institution was
designed to relieve ; — and shows , no less remarkably , the
power of a few kind hearts and clear heads , when also backed up by
unflinching wills for fifteen years . The germ of the institution
dates from the year 1841 , but little was done until 1843 , when the
society was newly organized , many members were added to the committee
, and the Rev . David Laing undertook the office of Honorary Secretary
. On application to the late Duke of Cambridge , he presided at a
public meeting in the month of May of the latter year ; the Duchess of
Gloucester , the Duchess of Cambridge , and the Queen Dowager gave
their names ; subscriptions were entered , and donations bestowed ;
and within a month of the public meeting the first practical plan was
organized for action , in the form of a ladies' committee , for ''
affording assistance privately and delicately to ladies in temporary
distress . ' * The committee met once a fortnight , and the amount of
actual destitution among educated women , which thus came to their
ears , is appalling to imagine . Many who would have shrunk from
appealing to private charity " hailed the establishment of the
institution as a message from Providence to save them from despair ; "
' and from the month of June 1843 until the following March , the
ladies committee received and examined a hundred and two cases , and
assisted fifty-six ; of the remainder the greater number were _„
" reluctantly declined for want of sufficient funds . " The report
_pives a sad classification of some of the cases relieved in this
first year ' s work ; one woman had " saved nothing during twentysix
years of exertion , having supported her mother , three younger
sisters , and a brother , and educated the four . " Three were
entirely empoverished by attempts to uphold their fathers' efforts in
business . Six were burdened by the support of invalid sisters who had
no other props in life ; and three were incapable of taking another
situation from extreme nervous excitement , caused by over exertion
and anxiety . In short , says the Report , " the inquiries made into
these cases may be briefly stated to show how many governesses spend
the early part of their lives in working for others . " Her time of
exertion comprising " twenty-five years at the utmost , at a salary
commencing at 25 _? ., and seldom exceeding 80 ? . per annum , if
domestic ties take part of her savings , or if ill health come ,
attended by that worst of all pains , compulsory rest—not only
stopping the accumulation of her little fund , but instantly preying
on it —how shall the governess provide for herself in her old age
?" As some slight solution of this fearful question—fearful when
the sex , the years , and the probable physical delicacy of the class
referred to are considered—the general committee set themselves
to work to found annuities for aged governesses . In this first year
500 ? . was got together and invested to create a perpetual annuity of
15 ? . ; and for this small yearly sum there at once appeared about
thirty candidates , many of them entirely destitute . By 1850 the
number of annuitants at 15 ? . per annum was seventeen , for which
annuities a proportionate capital had been raised , while twenty-five
received 20 ? ., and one annuity amounted to 30 Z . These annuities
were all permanent , and upon the death of any recipient another is
elected . In like manner , 1852 saw the Ladies 5 Committee
distributing temporary assistance to the amount of 1000 ? . a year .
The third branch of exertion consisted in the formation of provident
annuities , paid for by the teachers themselves . Contracts were made
at the National Debt Office , on better terms than the Life Assurance
offices would afford ; and between Ma rch 1843 and March 1844 , the
Honorary Secretary received 2351 ? . 9 s . 9 d . from ladies towards
the purchase of annuities for themselves . In 1856 the amount received
was 8758 ? . ; and two hundred and seventy-four ladies had secured
their annuities , — " an amount of permanent usefulness to the
society ' s credit , which is often overlooked by those of its friends
who think more of the relief of distress than of its prevention . "
The total amount received for provident annuities during the working
of this branch had reached in 1858 to the enormous sum of 164 , 000 ?
. The general principle of assurance is so little applied or
understood by the female sex , that no greater kindness can be done to
working women than to put them in the way of such safe and profitable
investments of their earnings , thus helping them to modes of self
help which they have neither the knowledge nor the courage to attempt
alone . In 1844 another branch of usefulness was planned , namely , a
b 2 temporary home for Governesses out of situations , "where they
could be more cheaply and respectably lodged than elsewhere ; and in
connexion with this Honie , a system of free registration . The latter
plan was first carried into operation at the office in 1845 , and in
1846 was transferred to the Home , which received , during the first
six months of its existence , fifty-two governesses as inmates .
Finally , in 1849 , an aged asylum was completed and inhabited , and
in 1856 its inmates numbered twenty-two . Our readers will perhaps be
tired of all these dates and figures , but only hy their aid can we
present even the slightest outline of what has been done by this long
series of labours . We will now gladly turn to some of the many
beautiful anecdotes of tender Christian feeling among these numbers of
women , both among those who gave and those who received ;—nay ,
in some cases , the poorest were also the givers . We find in one of
the earliest reports that , particulars having reached the ladies'
committee of a young governess who was dying at Cheltenham , a request
was forwarded to a friend in that distant town , who adopted the duty
of the metropolitan institution , and watched her to the last . In May
of the same year a lady sent 15 ? . to be divided among the
unsuccessful candidates for annuities • another sent 11 . for the
same purpose ; and in November " an anonymous friend sent through
Messrs . Hoare the noble donation of 100 ? ., to be divided amongst
ten of the unsuccessful candidates , at the discretion of the
Committee . " This friend afterwards _proved to be Dr . Thackeray ,
Provost of King ' s College , Cambridge , who on his decease in 1851
bequeathed an annuity to the Society . Here is a short story of a more
delicate and tender kindness than humanity can often bring forward .
The following letter was received from a former successful annuitant ,
whose whole income was 40 ? . " I am quite happy here , and rather
useful to my fellow creatures . I purposed writing next month to Mr .
Laing , to do me a very great favour next polling-day . " I want him
to be so good as to take the trouble to select from the poorest , the
most friendless , the shabbiest dressed of my sister governesses , who
may the next polling-day present themselves , and necessarily retire
disappointed ; ask him to invite such an one to spend a month with me
. I shall give the heartiest welcome , and try to warm and cheer her
the December time , whoever she may be , agreeable or the reverse . I
shall try to live nicely during her sojourn . The mercies I at this
moment enjoy ought for a few weeks to be shared with the disappointed
! " Meeting this invitation as it deserved , a lady was sent to whom
change of air and kindness were deemed most valuable , and the visitor
remained " nine weeks under her peaceful roof , " remarking of her
hostess , in a letter , " Often have I seen her , aged as she is ,
making up , in a suitable way , garments for the poor , that she had
begged for the purpose from her richer neighbours . It is astonishing
to see how ranch , she contrives to do for lier fellow creatures with
, an arnount per annum that would by many be deemed too small to
procure bread and cheese for herself . " With , regard to the great
age which occasionally marks the candidates , we find that in 1851
Miss Maurice , an unwearied friend to the institution , collected
enough money to entitle herself to a presentation to the asylum ,
which was given to an aged lady , eighty-one years old ; a period of
human existence at which it is somewhat painful not to know " where to
lay one's head . " The eighth annuity founded ( in 1845 ) was at the
suggestion of the Bishop of Durham , who offered to give 50 ? ., if
nine other parties would contribute the same amount , towards the
necessary 5001 . Six other names were received in a fortnight . * One
more extract and we have done . It is a sort of cornice to all the
preceding ones . The latest report states that " on a recent occasion
there were one hundred and twenty candidates for three annuities of 20
? . each . One hundred and twenty ladies , many reared in affluence ,
and all accustomed to the comforts and luxuries of at least our middle
ranks—all seeking an annuity of 201 . I Of these , ninety-nine
were unmarried ; and out of this number fourteen had incomes of , or
above , 20 ? ., eleven derived from public institutions or private
benevolence , and three from their own savings ; twentythree had
incomes varying from Twenty Shillings to 111 . ; and eighty-three had
absolutely Nothing . It will be recollected that all these ladies are
above fifty years of age ; and , of the utterly destitute , forty-nine
were above sixty . " Here we close our account of one of the most
remarkable charities of modern times , which is at this moment
pursuing its active career , and which , in drawing attention to an
amount of sheer destitution before unsuspected , will create final
results far more extensive than the immediate relief to individuals .
Yet we may ¦ well ask ourselves what would _« have become of these
individuals , but for such timely relief ? The more aged recipients of
annuities or inmates of the asylum would have lived with relatives ,
not with children , for a small proportion are married ; and in
innumerable instances they must have depended on the slender earnings
of nieces whom they had brought up to their own profession , thus
laying the seed for fresh misery of a like kind . A glance over the
many cases wherein teachers have bee n the only supports of orphans
will confirm the truth of this assertion ; for when their own " aged
mother" and " invalid sisters" are dead , on whom can they lean in
life except upon the children whom they have fed and taught upon their
own insufficient means ? When even this refuge fails them , they
literally come upon the ivorkhouse . Nor is this , O dear te ' nder -
hearted reader , an imagination . Go thou into our parish workhouses
in dreary London , and investigate the past histories of some of those
pale figures lying on the narrow couches of the female wards , and
thou wilt find there drifted waifs ai * d strays from the " upper and
middle classes" who pass long months and years in pauper clothing upon
a pauper ' s fare . Such a search would convince the brave and honest
independence of those who say , " Let us work hard -while we have
strength , on the terms that society allows ; and when we cannot do so
any more , let us suffer privation in silence , let us not accept
charity as a substitute for sufficient wages , " that the wide-spread
efforts made for governesses during the last fifteen years have been
justified by the occasion . No one who accepts the Christian religion
as a rule of life can deny what Turks and Pagans both preach and
practise , —tha t the simple direct effort to relieve pain and
poverty is one * of the primary duties of a human creature . In a
highly " civilized" community , where a degraded class exists who live
systematically upon the fruits of begging , and whom indiscriminate
aid can only corrupt further , there may be cogent reasons against
street - giving of halfpence to blind beggars with baskets , and
destitute families with six small children of impossible relative ages
, walking in a graduated procession at a snail ' s trot . But while
listening to the political economist who warns us that charity is
often only another name for self-indulgence in feeling , sowing the
seeds of greater misery than it professes to alleviate , we must not
forget that the limitations to this doctrine imposed by justice and by
religion are sufficient of themselves to constitute a positive code .
We must not train up any class to depend on the exertions of others ;
but we must set ourselves to work to help those who suffer , in such a
way as may tend to lessen their present pain and their future need ,
without counting too closely the money value of the precious ointment
bestowed upon that humanity which we share in common . We very much
doubt whether the action of our poor-law , doling out scanty help with
a grudging hand , which seems to offer an ill-defined right in the
place of honest charity , is not more degrading to our lower classes
than almsgiving . We are sure it is more degrading than alms bestowed
by those who throw their hearts in with them . But at any rate it is
our plainest duty to feed the hungry and to clothe the naked , and to
afford shelter to the aged , while striving that benefit to the
individual shall not result in injury and degradation to the class .
For , be it observed , life is no such smooth and easy matter that we
can say of any one who has fallen into misfortune that it is their
fault , or that of any one now living . It has pleased Providence to
place us in a moral atmosphere of so many mingled elements that we
cannot in many cases assign the particular causes of a particular
poverty . There are such things as hereditary diseases and hereditary
incapacity ;—banks will break and swallow up the fortunes of help
less hundreds , and a commercial crisis drags into its vortex houses
which were guiltless of speculation or expense . And so we see on all
hands , that , while certain general laws can be discovered which form
the moral scheme of Providence , there come up individual questions
every day which cannot be settled by reference to any such laws . We
know , as a matter of certainty , that the drunken workman will bring
his children to hunger and cold;—yet we cannot , therefore , let
the children die . We may come to fixed conclusions as to the causes
which lie at the root of the difficulty of earning a livelihood
experienced by ladies;—yet we none the less have this generation
of such ladies to care for , remembering the story of the good
Samaritan , who , when he saw that the stranger was wounded , did not
stop to speculate on the best way of rendering roads secure from
thieves , but went to him and hound up his wounds . We have entered on
this dry explanation of what we conceive to be the right way of
viewing large public charities privately administered , because we
believe there are many people of firstrate intellect and conscience ,
alike among the rich and the poor , who recoil from the idea of giving
or of receiving any material aid . We believe , "with the whole might
of our convictions , that for human creatures to help one another
freely , when that love which is the bread of life is given together
with the bread that perisheth , honours both the giver and the
receiver , and can be degrading to none . We have every reason to
believe that , in this particular instance of the Governesses'
Benevolent Institution , tLe greatest , the most sisterly tenderness
and delicacy has been shown in the transactions between the society (
as represented by its lady members ) and the teachers , while the
remarkable results obtained by the funds placed at their disposal
prove the zealous attention which must have been bestowed upon the
institution by experienced men ; and the mass of facts thus brought to
light serve as a wise and efficient basis of argument for those more
diffusive efforts which will tend to cut off the evil at its source ,
by directing the industry of educated women into other and more
profitable channels . Let us now turn to this , after all , most
important side of the question , and see upon what point of certainty
we can first fix our attention . It is the opinion of the gentleman
who has for years acted as honorary secretary , ( a post which has in
this instance been anything but a mere name , ) and under whose
observation all the accumulated details of the various connected
institutions have fallen , —it is his decided opinion that the
number of first-class governesses is not greater than the demand for
their services , and that , although , taking this for granted , the
salary of a woman of unusual profe ssional ability and attainment
cannot rise higher than that of a small Government clerk , at from
1001 . to 200 ? . a year , still this sum can be secured , and
absolute penury avoided . But this supposes the governess to be highly
accomplished according to the standard now insisted upon by the "
nobility and gentry , " to be well conversant with , two or more
foreign languages , and to be marked in dress and manner by all the
elegance of a highly-bred lady . Such a woman , capable of teaching
Horace to little Lord Edward , and of reading Dante and Schiller with
young Lady Isabella , will probably secure what is considered to be
relatively , if not absolutely , a " good salary . " Where then falls
the strain ? The question is easily answered ; it falls upon the
hundreds and thousands of women who , born in the middle class , live
by its instruction ; upon the daughters of professional men , who ,
educated themselves in the conventional degree of knowledge and
accomplishments , suddenly , at the death , of a parent , or the
failure of an investment , rush into the Profession of the Teacher ,
and discharge its duties in all probability with honesty and
thoroughness so far as they are able , but without any of that nicety
of acquirement , or peculiar tact and science in imparting , which
would enable them to outbid the hosts of sister governesses who are
teaching on the same social level , and for equally low pay . The over
supply of teachers has moreover reacted on the custom of the employers
, who have set their ideas to a certain scale , and , if they educate
their children at home , refuse to pay beyond a certain percentage on
the wh ole family income for their instruction . It remains for us to
see what can be done to kill this evil at its root . How much can be
done to mitigate its consequences may be read in these -reports ; but
after all the greatest benefit achieved by the group of institutions
of which they treat , consists in the degree of attention which they
have drawn to the state of the profession at large . One part of the
question is already in coarse of being answered . Every year sees an
ever-increasing number of women devoting themselves to the Fine Arts .
Their names are scattered about in the catalogue of the Royal Academy
, and last spring a special exhibition was opened for the reception of
works by female artists . Literature again is followed , as a
profession , by women , to an extent far greater than our readers are
at all aware of . The Magazines of the day are filled by them ; one of
the oldest and best of our weekly periodicals owes two-thirds of its
contents to their pens . Even the leaders of our newspapers are , in
some instances , regularly written by women , and publishers avail
themselves largely of their industry in all manner of translations and
compilations . In the reading-room of the British Museum , that
magnificent abode of learning , the roving eye may any day detect the
bowed heads and black silk dresses of ladies who come there for
references on every subject under heaven ; searching out obscure hints
concerning the ways and words of defunct princesses , or well-nigh
forgotten manipulations of antediluvian trades . But the number of
women who are adopting pursuits connected with literature and the arts
must not blind us to the fact that they will always constitute the
minority among even " skilled labourers . " For tlie smallest aptitude
with the pen , and 'what would appear to be a very average power of
arranging ideas in sequence , is not a very widely diffused
intellectual gift . Among men , how small is the comparative number of
artists and authors !—the hacks may perhaps be reckoned by
thousands , the average writers by hundreds , the geniuses by tens .
But when we speak of unemployed women , it is a question of tens of
thousands . What then will the arts do for them , when every other
woman one meets is ready to assure one that she could not write for
the press " to save her life" ? And here we would remark on what we
consider to have been very undeserved ridicule cast upon a sentence in
Miss Leigh Smith ' s little pamphlet entitled c Women and Work . ' The
sentence , which has been regarded as the ne phis ultra of wild
arithmetic , runs thus —it occurs at the close of some remarks on
female destitution : — " Apprentice 10 , 000 to watchmakers ;
train 10 , 000 for teachers for the young ; make 10 , 000 good
accountants ; put 10 , 000 more to be nurses under deaconesses trained
by Florence Nightingale ; put some thousands in the electric telegraph
offices all over the country ; educate 1000 lecturers for mechanics'
institutions ; 1000 readers to read the best books to the working
people ; train up 10 , 000 to manage washing-machines ,
sewing-machines , etc . Then the distressed needle-women would vanish
; the decayed gentlewomen and broken-down governesses would no longer
exist . " _ISTow , to isolate this sentence so as to make it appear
that any one person , or any dozen of committees , is expected thus to
parcel out the population by thousands , is an absurdity which we are
very sure was never contemplated by the writer of this energetic
little pamphlet . It is merely a rapid summing up of the scale on
which relief must be afforded before the enormous classes of destitute
women , from the refined lady to the " Eighty thousand women in one
smile , Who only smile at night beneath the gas , " can be raised to
the point of prosperous industry . If , as may be seen in examining
the census , forty-three per cent _, of women above the age of twenty
are either unmarried or widowed ;—if one half of the female
population of the country are paid labourers ;—if , as the
reports at the head of our paper suppose , the number of governesses
alone may be assumed at fifteen thousand , and the number of paupers
and worse than paupers enormously larger , —then it is evident
that an ideal distribution of the gross amount into wholesome trades
by tens of thousands is merely a forecasting of the results which we
must set ourselves to obtain somehow . To what ends then must we hope
to see the intelligent female labour of this Anglo-Saxon race directed
, and how is the current to be turned into new channels ? To the first
question we can see but one solution . Every race has its specialite
of function in the great sum total of humanity . • While the Hindoo
pecks rice , sleeps , bathes , fights , and embroiders coats of many
colours , and the Mohammedan Arab sits cross-legged in the sun and
plays endless games of backgammon , the Anglo-Saxon man digs and
ploughs , spins and weaves , buys and sells . He is a sturdy sensible
fellow , has a square forehead and an active body ; he can calculate
well , and usually knows how to buy in the cheapest and sell in the
dearest market . If he be neither literary nor artistic , and
nationally he is surely neither the one nor the other , Mr . Bull has
an unusually fair share of what is termed " good common sense . " Has
Mrs . Bull no feminine counterpart to these fine sterling qualities ?
We think she has . Mrs . Bull is what is usually termed a " motherly
body , " and not only looks after the children , but after the
storeroom too . She weighs the cheese and bacon , and metes out the
flannel . She looks after the farmer's men , and flatters her
husband's customers with a certain honest frankness which is
delightful to behold . In fine , the Englishwoman in country districts
, where many duties lie ready to her hand , and where the mania for
rising in life has not turned the best parlour into a boudoir , and
the fiddle into a cornet a piston , represents the feminine side of
the same active and sterling character which is supposed to mark the
Englishman ; witness a host of popular songs , tales , and caricatures
. Nay , when Punch takes our gracious Queen as the typical lady of the
country , what an indescribable air of wholesome activity he
communicates to the picture , reminding one of Solomon ' s good woman
! Surely then the daughters of our flourishing tradesmen , our small
merchants and manufacturers , who remain single for a few , or more
than a few years , may find some occupation more healthy , more
exciting , and more profitable than the under ranks of governessing .
If women so situated could more frequently assist their fathers and
brothers as accountants or clerks , or would enter bravely into all
such descriptions of business as are even now open to their sex ,
cultivating those virtues of order , economy , and punctuality which
business demands , they would find themselves far more happily and
successfully engaged than by rigidly confining themselves to what they
deem the gentilities of private life , and selling themselves to a
family but little above their own station for 25 / . a year . And thus
the higher class of governesses , who are fully educated up to the
requirements of a higher social scale , would meet with but little
competition and more assured pay . The arts , literature , and tuition
might be safely left to provide for the livelihood of clever women ,
if sensible women would but turn their sense to its many legitimate
spheres of action . But , women will not manage washing and sewing
machines , work electric telegraphs , keep tradesmen ' s books , or
set up shops , so long as they think , and so long as society enforces
the idea , that by so doing they forfeit caste and are rendered unfit
to associate -with " ladies , " though their fathers , brothers , and
prospective husbands may each and all be engaged in some form of
business . For in truth a most insane notion seems to prevail that
there are only one or two occupations which a woman can pursue and
retain the social status of a gentlewoman . A more baseless chimera
never weighed like an in cubus upon the energies of human creatures .
Let any young lady try how far society would support her if she
entered a telegraph office , or opened a stationer ' s shop , or took
a place as show-woman in any of our enormous clothing establishments .
We can guarantee to any such enterprising individual , if in other
respects a cultivated and pleasant woman , the " social suffrages " of
a large circle of * ' ladies " who would eagerly lend the assistance
of their private gentility , would invite her to their houses , and
applaud the adventurous she , Who in the first bark dared the unknown
sea ; while if two , three , or a dozen women of the professional
ranks took a like course , the fanciful distinction between different
grades of occupation for a livelihood would be as little generally
perceptible as that between the famous enigmatical sums of " six dozen
dozen and half a dozen dozen . " We can willingly admit , what the
slightest experience of different social circles would prove , that
these experiments are far easier in London than in the provincial
villages and towns . In the latter , where the local strata are better
defined , and people care infinitely more about preserving them intact
than they do in the metropolis , and don't like to tolerate what
geologists would call " a dip" or " a fault" in the ground , the young
lady who audaciously invaded the desk or the counter , or worked the
needles at a local station , might find some little difficulty in
maintaining her ground at tea parties . The young gentlemen might
refrain for a while from asking her to dance ; their mammas might feel
a greater dread of a " low connection" than if she had remained a
nursery governess . But even in " our village " we believe that the
surgeon's eldest daughter might brave and conquer these obstacles and
be none the Less a Queen of Twelfth Night ; and though at first all
the neighbours would whisper mysteriously that Miss H . certainly had
a " bee in her bonnet , " it would be soon found that the said bee
made more aoney than other people's butterflies , and would be
declared quite i respectable and praiseworthy insect . And if the
worst came to the worst , and one were not asked out _, o tea—why
then one might stay at home by the fire of one ' s own earning ,
inside one ' s own door , and snugly locked up by one ' s own key ,
teaching the widow's son to read , and the motherless bairn to sew ,
or holding comfortable converse with Dickens and Thackeray , Tennyson
and Mrs . Browning , or some of those elder spirits among " the just
made perfect" who have left us records of earnest lives and holy
deaths , as a compensation for living people whom we have not met
because they would not meet us , —because we kept a shop ! Into
the general stream of business , then , whose tributary rivulets are
of different complexion in different localities , we desire to turn
the intelligent female labour of the Anglo-Saxon race . The second
question we proposed was , —how are we to effect the change ? It
can _onLy be effected on the required scale by every young 'woman who
must " go out" from the domestic hearth asking herself , " Is there
nothing else which I can , for better pay than that of a governess ,
undertake at the cost of a little courage ? Can I not enter somebody
else ' s shop , or set up one of my own with some friend ? Or is there
not some situation as clerk or accountant , or superintendent , for
which I can fit myself if I look out sharply ?" Such an one , casting
her gentility on the waters , would assuredly find it return to her
again after not many days . And with married women in their own
comfortable and well-considered homes lies the great onus in this
matter , of sheltering with their motherly and sisterly sympathies the
more exposed career of those who must at all events for some years
seek their own bread . [ Let it once be clearly recognised that the
young business-woman is shielded by the social intercourse of those
who are technically called " ladies , " and many of those graver
objections which deter parents and guardians from allowing their
charges to meet the world in shops and Warehouses would be obviated .
It is because these scattered young women are not so shielded ,
because when they disappear there is no large and reputable circle to
hound the destroyer with indignation , that mischief sometimes occurs
. Before concluding we would fain make some allusion to a long and
careful paper in ' Blackwood' for the current month ( February ) . It
is , we think , written by a man of strongly conservative tendency , |
but with much sense and kindliness . The writer believes that the cry
about unemployed women nowadays is marked by much morbid exaggeration
, and that young men struggle with equal difficulties as tutors , as
clerks , as emigrants ; and that it would be an excellent thing if all
single women would get married as fast as they can , and the rest hold
their tongues in a dignified manner . And he thinks that the numbers
of solitary women are greatly exaggerated in the popular mind just at
the present time . He instances the Bronte family as a case where the
tutor brother failed , and the governess sisters succeeded , in
working out a great career . All this is said with a certain pleasant
paternal kindness , much as Sir Peter Laurie might have put down
suicide , and the only objection we have to make is that the article
ignores facts . The exact number of women who are unmarried or widowed
, and such proportion of them as have to work for their bread , are to
be found stated in the census . Female pauperism ( in the workhouses )
can be estimated , and female emigration told , to a head : nobody
need dispute about " exaggeration " till they have checked it by
figures . But , supposing women to have as good chances of escaping
destitution as men ( which they have no € ) , still everybody knows
that destitution is for them a more awful thing ; that there are
depths of horror , of degradation , into which men cannot fall ; and
that , without any ugly reflections as to the comparative chances of
the university tutor or the governess , there is cogent reason why
prosperous Englishwomen , and those many good men who are willing to
help them , should try _"with might and main to help their own sex to
further industrial gains , and every reason why the young working
women of the day should cast about for what their hand findeth to do ,
remembering that , after all , it is themselves who must clear the
path to new occupations . " Who would he free , herself must strike
the blow _"
