_— _= _«»* _- As an important controversy has recently been
raised , and is still much . . agitated , respecting the industrial
employment of fernales _,- _^ - mvolving the questions ( 1 ) whether
any such employment at all is desirable , and ( 2 ) to what extent ,
if desirable at all , and in what direction , a demand for such
employment should be satisfied , —it may he rendering some
service to the disputants if , without taking any side in the dispute
, we endeavor to present , in a concentrated shape , a few facts and
figures relating to the subject . Our statistics , it is true , are
neither novel nor recent , being in fact but a reproduction of the
information collected at the census of 1851 ; hut it may nevertheless
be instructive at the present time to have this information placed
before us in a separate and special form , together with certain
inferences and conjectures which the figures , when viewed in relation
to existing controversies , naturally suggest . Let us first obtain a
view of the entire subject matter of the inquiry , by ascertaining the
total number of persons affected by it . In 1851 , the total number of
females , of all ages , living in Great Britain ( Ireland therefore
not being included ) was 10 , 735 , 919 , Of these about a third , viz
. 3 , 692 , 218 , were under fifteen years of age ; and about
three-sevenths , or 4 , 737 , 535 , were under twenty ye ars of age .
Now , it is argued by one of the parties in the controversy alluded to
, that , as there are many kinds of remunerative occupation for which
females are not physically disqualified , it is both proper and
desirable that such occupations should be followed , if possible , by
at least all those who have no independent means of support . On the
other hand , the opposing party in the controversy assert that , if
females are not subject to a physical , they are subject to a natural
, disqualification for industrial 11 labor , inasmuch as their proper
and peculiar business , trade , and profession are— -to get
married and manage a house and family ; all who fail in this
enterprise being in the position of bankrupt traders who fail in their
respective pursuits . It is therefore urged that all married females
should confine _tliem-VOL V . A . solves to the domestic duties which
constitute , _tlioir proper occupation , and th . at all unmarried
females ' should employ themselves exclusively in preparing * for
marriage . It is further represented that women , if placed in a
position of independence as to means of livelihood , will not be so
disposed to marriage ( which is a ' public benefit ) as if they were
compelled to regard that contingency as their only source of support .
It is no part of our present task , to criticise the view of marriage
, and the motives which lead to it , thus presented to our notice . We
are now only dealing with the question as a matter of cold statistics
, and of the way in which , they boar upon rival theories . The amount
of acceptance which these rival theories as to the proper province of
the female population have met with , may be gathered from , the
statement that in 1851 there were 2 , 846 , 097 females engaged in
some description of remunerative labor ; . besides about 500 , 000
wives and daughters of persons engaged in trades and occupations of a
nature to make it likely that they assisted in the business and did
not restrict themselves exclusively to domestic affairs . We may
therefore conclude that by upwards of three millions and a quarter of
our female population , out of the total of 10 , 700 , 000 , the
latter theory of their proper province is at present repudiated ; or ,
if we exclude from the comparison all children under fifteen years of
age , the number of females employed in occupations other than
domestic will be 3 , 107 , 791 out of a population of 7 , 043 , 701 .
Of course the vast majority of these industrious three millions belong
to the working class of society ; but the argument against the
employment of females for the reasons stated is necessarily general ,
and must , if valid at all , apply to the poorer as well as to the
richer classes . Marriage is not more the business of one class than
of another ; the poorest wife has to discharge the same do mestic
duties as the most wealthy ; and the female artisan is as able to gain
independence by her exertions , and as liable to whatever influence
such independence may exert upon matrimony , as her more educated
sister-worker . _ISxisting practice , then , is not in accordance with
the theory under consideration ; for not only do unmarried females
employ their time in industrial pursuits , instead of spending it
wholly in the business of husband-hunting , but a great portion of our
married female population find it consistent , or make it compatible ,
with the domestic engagements which are supposed to constitute their
only proper occupation ., ' to devote a considerable portion of tlioir
time to remunerative employment in the various trades and manufactures
. The actual number of wives thus returned as employed in 1851 , was ,
in round numbers , 780 , 000 out of 3 , 460 , 000 wives ; and that no
doubt was an imdor-sfcatomeiit . Of course this fact does not prove
the theory to be erroneous , as it may very easily be replied that
society loses more by the ill-consequences to husbands and children ,
of the absence of domestic care and instruction , than it gains by the
additional labor of so many wives and mothers . The wide prevalence ,
however , of the practice bears against the theory with whatever
weight may be due to the assumption that a civilised community will
generally organise itself without any serious violation of sound
principle . Besides wives and unmarried females , there were 795 , 590
widows living- in 18 51 . It will be felt to be a question , not
merely interesting but somewhat serious , whether to this class also
is to be aj ) plied the theory that , unless left in independent
circumstances , their proper daily business is to direct their efforts
so as to secure a repetition of former successful speculations , to
make other ventures , to take new contracts , and to enter into fresh
partnerships . We should all of us probably feel inclined to pause and
reflect upon the consequences before assenting to the doctrine that
widows unprovided for are not to engage in ordinary industrial
pursuits , but are to seek their only means of support in the home of
second matrimony . One of such consequences is shown by these figures
of the census tables ; for we there discover that of these 79 5 , 590
widows , there were probably about 40 0 , 000 ( excluding annuitants ,
pensioners , and proprietors of lands or houses ) who obtained some ,
if not the principal part , of their income from , their exertions in
professions , trades , commerce , or manual labor . One consequence ,
therefore , if the doctrine in question were to be enforced , would be
the introduction of 400 , 000 additional competitors into the
marriage-market , already perhaps sufficiently overstocked . This last
expression leads to another point . It is urged in support of the
proposition that women should be taught to look exclusively to
marriage as their calling , that Nature herself teaches this lesson by
providing a numerical _eqtiality of the sexes . But what are the
statistics upon this point ? It is quite true that , as far as the
number of births is concerned , Nature provides , in this country as
well as generally throughout the world , an adequate proportion of
each sex . Indeed , in Great Britain the number of males born
constantly exceeds the number of females born ; so that there would
seem to be an adequate provision of husbands for all the females who
might grow up to womanhood . But there is this peculiarity in the
circumstances of this country , that the equality of the sexes , which
exists at birth and continues up to the age of eighteen , then ceases
. After that age there is a disparity in the numbers , which disparity
steadily increases ; so that the persons resident in . Great Britain
in 1851 of twenty years of age and upwards , w ere divided into 5 ,
459 , 000 males and 5 , 998 , 000 females ; showing an excess of the
latter sex ( if such an expression be allowable ) to the extent of 539
, 000 . This excess would be reduced by about 100 , 000 if the army
and navy and other residents abroad were taken into the account ; but
these classes are clearly subject to such virtual disqualifications in
respect of marriage that it would not be proper to make any
considerable deduction on this account . TOL . V . A 2 We may
therefore assume tliat tlie number of females of a marriageable age ,
in Great Britain , will always exceed , the numlber of males of the
same age to the extent of about half a million ; and the question is ,
How are we to deal with the half million ( or rather , upwards of half
a million ) young women who , by the very ordinance of Nature , must
necessarily , in a monogamic society , be unable to obtain husbands ?
If we are to admit the proposed doctrine that " married life is woman
' s profession , " and that all that can be said for those who do not
get husbands is that " they have failed in . business" like any other
insolvent tradesman , it is at all events a melancholy anomaly , which
has no parallel in the commercial world , that 500 , 000 persons
should be obliged to educate themselves for a profession in which it
is known beforehand that , whatever their abilities , they cannot
possibly succeed ! "Would not society , in adopting such a theory , be
somewhat like the benchers of an inn of court if they were to allure a
host of young men to become members , allow them to spend their three
years in attending lectures , passing examinations , and otherwise
qualifying themselves for the profession , • and then refuse to call
them to the bar because ( as the said benchers had all along well
known ) the number of barristers was already quite complete and
perhaps excessive ? We trust we are dealing with the question
statistically . "We only want to point out what seems to us to be a
difficulty arising entirely out of the figures , leaving the
difficulty itself to be dealt with by others * and merely suggesting
whether , if an exception to the doctrine is to be admitted to the
extent of half a million females , such an exception would not destroy
the rule , inasmuch as it would be impossible to define beforehand the
particular half million in whose favor the exception should be allowed
to operate . It would doubtless be very rash to assume that the 500 ,
000 young women ia Great Britain who are destined to remain single all
their lives , foresee that destiny in time to avail themselves of an
exceptional liberty to earn tlie means of their support in other ways
. If , then , it would be impossible to set apart any particular
individuals as necessarily belonging : to the half million of
celibates , does not the allowance of a limited . exception involve
the allowance of a general exception in favor of all • who may deem
their chance of meeting the appropriate prince sufficiently doubtful
to make it prudent for them to provide a resource in some remunerative
occupation ? There is another point in connection with this subject ,
upon which statistical facts have a certain bearing . Another of the
reasons put forward against the industrial employment of women is ,
that if they are allowed or encouraged to acquire sufficient means to
maintain themselves in independence , however moderate , they will
become indisposed to benefit society by marrying . It is impossible of
course to say how potent may be the natural distaste which is thus
assumed to exist on the part of the fair sex for marriage viewed in
any other aspect than that of a , commercial bargain ; but , unless
that distaste be very powerful indeed , it might be thought that the
possession of a certain independence , or of the abilities requisite
to insure it , would , by making the possessor more eligible as a
commercial property , attract more offers of partnership than would
otherwise be made from the other sex , and thus lead to an increased ,
rather than a diminished , number of marriage contracts . But it is
not our wish to enter upon this question further , except under the
guidance of figures ; and we want to place the following figures
before our readers , in orde r that their value as an indication of
the extent of the repugnance supposed may be tested and determined .
The number of unmarried females industrially employed at the age of
twenty years and upwards , in 1851 , was 1 , 210 , 663 . Now , as a
test upon the point in question , let us see the number thus employed
at the age of forty years and upwards . If the mere ability to live
unmarried is as influential as is supposed in deterring from marriage
, this 1 , 200 , 000 ought in twenty years to have diminished only
_lyy the number of deaths occurring amongst them in that period .
According to the usual rate of mortality prevailing at that period ,
and allowing for an increasing population , the diminution "would be
from 1 , 200 , 000 to 664 , 000 , as the number surviving at the age
of forty and upwards . But the actual number found by the census , was
only 12 6 , 551 . "What then could have become of the 537 , 000 not
accounted for by deaths ? Is there any answer so plausible as that
they ceased to be unmarried because they became married ? I am aware
that another solution maybe suggested , viz ., that they remained
unmarried but ceased to be employed . But the figures show that the
total number of unmarried females , employed or not employed , of the
age of forty and upwards , was only 360 , 000 , and that the whole
number of unmarried females not employed was but 233 , 000 . All that
is proved positively by this is that a considerable number of the
employed single women of the age of twenty to forty must have married
before they arrived at the latter age , and that a considerable number
more must either have married or , remaining single , have been
transferred to the ranks of the unemployed . But although positive
proof carries us no further than this , may we not , from the
probabilities of the case , fairly infer something more ? For instance
, it is probably more reasonable to assume that the unemployed single
women at forty were _unenrployed single women at twenty , than to
assume that the employed single women at twenty had become _unemploj
_^ ed at forty ; and if it would be justifiable thu s to suppose that
the two classes of single women— -the employed and
unemployed—remained distinct , or at least without any important
migration from one class to another , then it would become manifest
that the employed single women obtained husbands in much greater
proportion than the unemployed , and the theory under _considerar tion
would appear to be untenable . For , the number of unemployed single
women of the age of twenty and upwards being 556 , 000 , and the
number of the age of forty and _up-wurus _Leiiig 1 233 , 000 , the
latter number is only about 75 , 000 less than the number ( 308 , 000
) which the ordinary mortality of the twenty years would leave alive
at the end of that interval . So that only about twenty-four per cent
, of the survivors could have married ; whereas the proportion of
marriages amongst the employed single women ¦ would be as high as
eighty-one per cent . Of course these calculations cannot be relied
upon as furnishing accurate representations of the precise state of
the case . They are only given as indicating perhaps to some extent
the direction in which the statistics of the subject point . * _! ¦
—i ...
