FALL OF THE SOUTHERN HALF OF \ SEBASTOPOL . 1 On the 5 th instant , at
daybreak , the French and jj English batteries opened fire , and the
bombardment J continued all that day and the next . The effect 01 |
this storm of fi ery bolts , beating uninterruptedly on 1 ' the
fortifications and on the harbour , was soon visible 1 on the Russian
ships drawn in the latter . A | two-decker was fired by a shell on the
night of the 1 5 th , and burnt to the water ' s edge ; a frigate
shared < = ] the same fate on the afternoon of the 7 th . Towards , j
midnight , an awful explosion , probablfrom a - || zine on the north
side , shook the air ; and on the r following morning a great fire
sprang 1 up from the l middle of the town . It was then perceived by
the J Allied Generals that the moment for the assault had ! & j
arrived . The French , accordingly , advanced against i the Malakhoff
, tlie Careening Bay Redan , and the Central Bastion ; the English
attacked the Great d Redan . A despatch from General Pelissier
describes the first results of this combined action : — i " The
assault was made at twelve o ' clock on Satur- ' ] day on the
Malakhoff . Its redoubts and the Redan ol" ,. . * Careening Bay were
carried by our br ave soldiers with , admirable enthusiasm . Amidst
cries of ' Vive I'Em- : pereur P we at once set about lodging
ourselves securely there , and at the Malakhoff we have succeeded .
But . j the Redan of Careening Bay could not be kept in face ; of tho
powerful artillery which swept away the firwt { occupants of that work
. " " Our brave allies carried the works of tho Great j ; < Redan with
their usual vigour ; but , like ourselves at | the Redan of Careening
Bay , they were obliged to gi yo I j > way to tho artillery of the
enemy , and to his poworful f ! reserves . , \ < \ " When wo saw our
eagles floating over the Malakhol )' , g General do Salles made two
attacks on the Central jfl Uostion ; they did not succeed , and his
troops returned ' j to . the trenches . " Thus it will be seen that
tho first operations wore ' partly successful , partly a failure . But
tho capture of the Malakhoff was sufficient to compensate for the
repulse at tho other points ; and the Kussinns | ( speedily discovered
that tho southern side of Sobas- \\ topol was no longer tenable . . '
The narrative is thus continued in General Tens- y > eier ' s second
despatch , dated " Branoion Kodoubt , W Sept . 9 ( Sunday ) , 3 , a .
m .: "— 4 " Karabolnuiu and the south part of flebiwtopol \ w
longer exist . Tho enemy , perceiving our solid oix-upu- f tion of tho
Malakhoff , decided upon evacuating tin 1 place , after having
destroyed und blown up l > y m '" . " " 1 nearly all tho defences .
Having passed tho mglit > " tho midst of my . troops , I can assure
you that oyorj - thing in tho Karabolnuia in blown up , and , from wlu
\ l . could see , tho same must bo tho case In front ol < > " » ' '
CH lino of attack . This imtnonso succoaa does tho grout ** honour to
our troops . . t " To-morrow I ahull bo able to form an ouliniiUf .
tho results of thin groat day ' s work , a lartf" I' 01 ' 110 " ' 1
the honours pf -wMch -is due to Generals Bosquet anc ^ E ^ er ^ thing
is quieten the Tchernaya , and we ar < vigilant there . " At eight x /
clock on the evening of the * ame day the Wrench . General'writes •
: — " This morning , I ascertained that the enemy has sunk his
steamers . Their work of destruction continued under the fire of our
shells . The explosion of mines successively and at different points
makes it our duty to defer our entrance into the place , which
presents the spectacle of an immense conflagration . •¦ - * '
Glosely pressed by our'fire , Prince Gortschakoff has demanded an
armistice to carry away the remainder oi the wounded near 'Fort St .
Paul . The bridge , as a precautionary measure , has been broken down
by his orders . " Towards these great results , the French and English
mortar-boats contributed . Admiral Bruat , writing on September 9 , at
a quarter after ten in the morning , thus relates the operations of
those vessels : — "A gale from the north ( on the 8 th ) kept the
ships at anchor . The mortar-boats , to be enabled to fire , were
obliged to enter Streletzka Bay . They fired six hundred shells
against the Quarantine Bastion and Fort Alexander . The six English
mortar-boats , also at anchor in Streletzka Bay , fired about the same
number of shells . " To-day we ascertained that the Russian vessels
had been sunk . The bridge was covered with troops retreating to the
north side . After eight o ' clock , the bridge was destroyed . I
approached this morning the Quarantine batteries on board the Brandon
, and ascertained myself that they are now evacuated . They have just
blown up . Our soldiers have left their trenches , and are spreading
themselves in groups over the--fortifications of the town , which seem
to be totally deserted . " At eleven o ' clock on the night of
September 10 th ( Monday ) , General Pelissier wrote the subjoined :
— "To-day , I have gone over the town of Sebastopol and its lines
of defence . The imagination would strive in vain to realise the fall
extent of our victory : nothing short of actual inspection on the spot
could supply an idea of the extent and multiplicity of the works and
material means of defence , which very far surpass all that is
recorded in the history of war . " The capture of the Malakhoff ,
which compelled the enemy to fly before our eagles , three times
victorious , has placed in the hands of the Allies immense
establishments and material , the importance of which it is impossible
yet to estimate precisely . " To-morrow ( Tuesday ) , the troops will
enter the Karabelnaia suburb and the town . Under their protection ,
an Anglo-French commission will take an account of the material
abandoned to us by the enemy . " The despatches received from General
Simpson and Admiral Lyons merely confirm , in briefer form , the
foregoing reports . Speaking of our unsuccessful attack on the Redan ,
General Simpson writes : — " The casualties , I regret to say ,
are somewhat heavy : no general officer killed . " General
Gortschakoff ; unable any longer to boast of a victory , accompanied
by the loss of only one Cossack , thus communicates the particulars of
his defeat iu two separate despatches : — " Sept . 8 , 10 p . m .
" The garrison , after sustaining an infernal fire , reipulaed six
assaults . It is found impossible to drive the enemyifrom the
Kornileff ( the Halakhoff ) . Our brave troops , who . resisted to the
last extremity , are now retiring to the < north side of Sebastopol .
" " Sept . 9 . " The retreat of the garrison to the north side has
boon effected with extraordinary success . We have not lost more than
one hundred men on this occasion . Wo have only left five hundred
wounded on the south side . " 'The reader will of course understand
that theso losses refer only to the passage from the one half of the
town to the other . • For this exploit , General Pelissier has been
made a Marshal . A Te Deum lnia been ordered at all the places of
worship in Franco . The news of the fall of tho southern side of
Seoastopol was known in London on tho afternoon of Monday . A
tremendous rush , almost amounting to a riotous disturbance , took
place ut tho oflices oi 1 all i ¦ the oven ing papers ; and the town
was thrown into a state of tho utmost excitement and enthusiasm . Joy
at'the event overcame tho natural fueling of vexation that our own
countrymen cannot lay much claim to a share in tho final catastrophe .
Groups of eager readerB and talkers formed in tho streets ; the church
hollB wore sot ringing ; tho houso of tho French ambassador nt Albert
Unto was illuminatod ; and a general ferment of joy spread far and
wide . At tho various places of umusemont , tho news was announced
from the stage , amidst groat shouting , and was followed by » Par
tun t pour la St / rh" and " God save tho Queen . " On tho following
morning tho "I anc and Tower guns proclaimed tho success of tho Allies
as-flu * as tho wind would carry their report . Jt Is needless to add
that in tho provincial towns , in Scotland and Irelandand ^ over
France , the same amount of enthusiasm . has been manifested . A list
of billed and wounded among the officers has been . forwarded by
General Simpson . Some of the most-noticeabl e points in this return
are thus summarised in the Globe : — "It would appear fromstne
list of casualties among the officers , that the brant of the fighting
-at the ^ edan ¦ fell uponthe Second and Light Divisions , '
commanded by Generals Markham and Codrington , and portions of Spencer
' s Brigade of the 4 th , and Horn ' s Brigade of the Highland
Division . The First Division , composed of the Guards , with the 3 th
, 13 th , 81 st , and -65 th Regiments , were not engaged . The Jfirst
Brigade of the Highland Division Tvas up at the Tchernaya ; the Third
Division appears to have been out ; of "fire ; and Gscrrett ' s
Brigade , the second of 'the Fourth Divi sion , also presents no
casualty among its officers . The . contest was thus apparently
carried on by a force equal to about three divisions , or one-half the
strength of our infantry then before Sebastopol . The list of killed
numbers 26 officers , and , with the exception of three officers of
the 90 th Light Infantry ( now attached to the Hjghlanc Division ) ,
they all belong to the Second and Light Division , which , as at .
Alma , , Inkennan , and the Quarries , and throughout the . siege oper
ations , maintain their sad but glorious pre-eminence in the list of
the slain . The two brigadiers of the Light Division , Van Straubenzee
and Shirley , are wounded slightly , as well as one brigadier of the
Second Division , Warren and his . aidede-camp . . . . 113 officers
are wounded , and 1 is missing . Of the 113 wounded , 17 are
dangerously , 55 severely , and 41 slightly . At the Alma , we lost ;
precisely the . same number in killed , with 73 wounded ; at Inkerman
, the numbers w . ere 43 killed and 101 wounded . " Le Nord , bound to
make out the best case under every possible circumstances , says that
the evacuation of South Sebastopol exhibits in Prince Gortschakoff "
the energy of a great commander , " gives to the army "that unity of
movement and action which-until now it has wanted , " and " , places
it in a position ' which enables its General to eommand the situation
" " (!) It is a happy temperament which allows of all defeats being
regarded as victories . The Methodist in the farce " liked to be
despised : " Russia likes to be defeated . ^ EVACUATION OJF
PETKOPAULOVSKI . The Allied squadrons which sailed in the early part
of the year , in order to make a second attack upon Petropaulovski ,
have been disappointed in their expected revenge . In the early part
of last May , the fleet appeared before the town ; butto their great
surprise , they found an American , instead of a Russian , flag flying
from the walls , and a strange silence and appearance of desertion
about the place . On landing , the officers found that the town had
been evacuatedand that the only human beings left were two or three
Americans and a runaway French sailor . They were informed by these
that orders had come from Siberia for the removal of the Russian
troops to the garrison at the mouth of the Ainoor ( or Amur ) riveron
the northern borders of Chinaand that the inhabitants had fled to tho
village of Avatschasome miles distant . Two English steamers , the
Barracouta , Captain Parker , and the Encounter , Captain
O'Callaghanwere ordered from China in the course of last winter to
watch the movements of the enemy at Petropauloveki , and during the
spring they lay off . the coast about sixty miles from that place ;
yet , notwithstanding the orders they had received to keep an eye on
the Russian garrisonevery manwoman , and child ( amounting in all to
1200 ) contrived on the 17 th of April to embark on board the Aurora ,
the Dwina , and four merchantmen ( three of which wore American
whalers ) and to escape with all their stores and ammunition to tho
Ainoor river . Tho thickness of tho weather , owing to anow and fogs ,
is alleged as the excuse for this extraordinary result . The Rus sian
ships , however , passed close to the Englishand had a narrow escape .
A few days after tho evacuation of the place , a Russian Admiral
arrived there iu a small sloop or lugger , with one hundred and fifty
men . On learning tho state of affairs , ho too proceeded to tho
Ainoor , eacaping with equal good fortune , owing to tbo fog , and to
his hugging tho coast . It would soom that tho Russians did not
originally contemplate this evacuation ; for , after our ropulso laat
September , it was determined to strengthen tho fortifications of
Potropaulovski . This was in fact executed ; and thoru wore evidences
of fifty-one gunsof tho heaviest calibre , having been mounted iu tho
. oinbruourou . Tlieuu cannonuiilosu they wcro carried away to tbo
Ainoor rivor , have probably boun buried . Tho Allicw , disappointed
in thoir hqpo of a bucue & sful contest with tho onomy , burnt tho
aruouulu , lumgnzinos , & c . ( which wore principally frame
buildiijgn ) together with any Government proporty that could bo found
. Thefortifiuutiona wcro likowiao destroyed ; but tho private
dwellings were respected . A fence was then erected round tho'graven
of Admiral Price und tho English and French who wero killed in the
proviouu attack . A corroHpoudont of tho / Sun . Francisco Herald
gives tho following account of tho Russian naval force in tho Ainoor :
•— " Tho Russian shipu of war are now all colloctcd iu tho
Ainoor , and conuiat of tho following s—The frigates { Pallas and
Aurora , the corvette . Dwinatmo steamships , and a few transports .
pit is believed that they have -all been partly disarmed and ,
conveyed as high , up the river as -possible-so as to be placed beyond
the reach of the guns of the Allied squadrons . The mouth of the
Ainoor is defended by ; strong forts-and garrisoned by from 8000 to
10000 < men . Reinforcements are constantly coming down the river from
Siberia . " The Barracouta and the Encounter had proceeded to 'the
-mouth of the Amoor at the date of the last intelligence ; and it was
expected that by the J . 5 th . of July the English and French
divisions on the China station , forming a collective force of twenty
vesselsincluding seven large war steamers , would have arrived at the
same . spot . The correspondent from whom we have just quotedhas the
following : — " The Allied forcesincluding the French frigates
Forte and Alcestewith the corvette Eurydice and the British
line-of-battle ship Monarch the frigates President and Didoand the
screw steamer Brisk , have gone to the Russian settlements in the
Aleutian Islands and to Kodiak . They will pick up any Russian
trading-vessels that they may meet with . They will afterwards look in
at Sitka . If there are any Russian ships-of-war there , they will
assail the place and try to cut them , out ; if not , they will
respect it , unless provoked by the Russians opening the . first fire
. Sitka is placed beyond the sphere of hostilities by an agreement
between the English and Russian companies which their respective
Governments have sanctioned . The French do not deem themselves bound
by this agreement . " • Later accounts state that the Allied fleet
has visited Sitka ; but , upon being satisfied that no vessels of war
were in the harbourthe place was left unmolested . The chief business
of the town is in the hands of a Russian American company , who su
pply the Californians with ice for their " sherry cobblers ; " but the
trade hitherto carried on between Sitka and the Aleutian Islands and
other places in Okhotsk has been greatly injured by the blockade
established by our fleet . The Russian possessions in that direction
are said to be suffering from want of-provisions . The Times
Californian Correspondent remarks : — " Recurring to the affair
of last autumn at Petropaulovski , we have now undoubted information
that the Russians were reduced to a few pounds of powder , the two
vessels Aurora and Dwina , which were moored across the entrance and
drawn up as batteries , having been reduced to just sufficient for one
broadsideand the garrison to about the same extremity ; that , a train
was aid under the vessels to blow them up , and a man in readiness
with a fuse to apply it ; andfinally , that the flag on the batteries
would have been struck as soon as the vessels were destroyed , and the
garrison would then have surrendered . -All this would have been
accomplished if the Allied fleet had not unluckily hauled off a little
too soon . " It seems probable that Petropaulovski will not be capable
of being turned to any further account by the Russians ; but they have
exchanged for it a fortification which bids fair to be much more
formidable , and which has already been described aa " the new
Sebastopol . " ¦ A bar extends over the mouth of the Amoorwhich is
never covered by any greater depth of water than thirteen feet ; so
that our ships Tvill not beiable to ride over , as the firo of the
batteries will prevent our adopting an expedient resorted . to by the
Russianswho took out the guus and discharged everything from their
men-ofwarwhich , being thus lightened , were floated over tho
obstruction into deep water . The vessels wore then formed into a sort
. of batbery , and the guns -were replaced . The distance from the
fortifications at the outside of the bar iseoid to bo too great for
our fleet to operate on them . In a paper-read in Martin last before
the Literary and Historical Society of Quebec , wo find the Russian
fortresses at the mouth of tho Amoor thus described : — " Within
the last eighteen months , "the Russians have availed themaolves of
their -possession of the mouth . of the magnificent river Amoor (
which they have obtained by taking advantage of tho present troubles
in China ) to itronsport a hu-go number of heavy guns , and an immense
quantity of other munitions of warfrom the interior of Siberia to 'tho
'Pacific , and thence to their posts in America . ! By this now
seizure . of territory from China , and'tho consequent acquisition of
the entire navigation of tho Ainoorupon which they have already
plaaeri several steamboats , tho Russians have boon ublo toisecure a
splendid naval 'harbourand to establish a depot of warlike and othor
supplies upon tho western shores of tho 'Pacific , in a climate which
admits of navigation during the -whole winter , within reach of tho
grout uroonuls and manufactories of Siberia , und of tho great lino of
communication running through tho latter itothe wontandthereforeof tho
whole resources of the umpire , and uIbo of their possosrtions in
America , by which tho latter have become of fur nioro importance to
thornand far more formidable to their eiieinJoa . un « i England mid
Franco sirnH -maint ain a Huflloloneor n « morouH fleet iu tho
Pacific , to capture or blockade tbo coast of Itusaian America , or to
capture the now Solmstopolwhich it . fust rmints In offensive , ««
well as m . JofeiiBlvostrength at tho mouth of the Amoor , tho lattor
wil constitute the m «* pawrttal wi'POrt . « ud rosorve ¦ to tho
former ; and , tho iron and cowlugo of Siberia being doseat hand , the
Russians will be able to build and « nd forth powerful fleets that
might keep in dread the entire seaboard of our Indian and Australian
possessions , by passing on , at any favourable moment , make a
diversion in Europe . " ' * .,, ¦ " * A . despatch from Admiral Brace
, relative to the evacuation of Petropaulovski , has been published ;
but it adds no details of interest to the foregoing . EXPLOSION OF A .
MAGAZINE . - Hie -whole of the camp was shaken this morning ( Aug . 80
) at one o ' clock by a prodigious explosion , which produced the
effects of an earthquake . A deplorable accident had occurred to our
gallant allies as they were pursuing their works with their accustomed
energy . A -tumbrel , from which they were discharging powder into One
of the magazines near the Mamelonwas struck by a ahell from the
Russian batteries , which burst as it crashed through the roof of the
carriage , and ignited the cartridges within ; the flames caught the
powder in the ' magazine , and , with a hideous roar , 14 , 000 rounds
¦ off gunpowder rushed forth in a volcano of fire to the "skies , '
shattering to atoms the magazine , the tumbrels , and -all the
surrounding works , and whirling from its centre in all directions
over the face of the Mamelon land beyond it one hundred and fifty
officers and men . , r 0 fstbesev forty were killed on the spot , and
the rest are 'Scorched and burnt , or struck by splinters and stones ,
and by the shot and shell which were thrown into the air by the .
fiery eruption . . Masses of earth , gabions , stones , fragments
ofjcarriages , and heavy shot were hurled far into our works i on the
left of the French , and wounded several of our men . The light of the
explosion was not great , but the roar and shock of the earth were
very considerable . The heaviest keepers awoke and rushed out of their
tents . There was raflence for an instant , and but for an instant ,
as the sullen thunder rolled slowly away and echoed along the Heights
of Inkerman and Mackenzie ; then the Russians , leaping to their guns
, cheered loudly , but their voices -were soon smothered- m the crash
of the French and • English batteries , which opened all along the
right of the attack , and played fiercely on their works . A bright '
• moonlighted up the : whole scene , and shed its rays upon a huge
pillar of smoke and dust , which rose into the air : from theMamelon ,
and which , towering to an immense jneight i unfolded itself and let
fall from its clustering ' . waves of smoke and sulphurous vapour a
black precipitate of earth , fine dust , and pebbles , mingled with
miserable fragments , which fell like rain over the works below . The
dark cloud hung like a pall for nearly an hour over the place ,
reddening every moment with' the reflexion ¦ of- the flashes of
artillery , which boomed incessantly till dawn . —Times
Correspondent .
