THE DEATH OF HUGH MILLER . We briefly mentioned last week the death
from a pistol shot of Mr . Hugh Miller , tlie celebrated Scotch
geological writer and journalist . It was at first believed , as we
then stated , that the firing of the pistol was accidental : it now
appears certain that the act was intentional—that , in truth , it
was a case of suicide arising from temporary insanity . Mr . Miller
had worked himself into a frightful state of nervous excitement and
cerebral disorder ; and his melancholy end holds out another warning
to those overwrought men of letters who supply the periodical writing
of these fearfully high-pressure days . Tho facts of the case are so
extrem ely , though painfully , interesting , that we reproduce them
at some length from last Saturday ' s number of the Witness , the
Edinburgh newspaper which . Mr . Miller edited up to the time of his
death : — > " For some months past , his overtasked intellect had
given evidence of disorder . Ho became tbo prey of fnlso or
exaggerated alarms . ' He fancied—ifindeed , it was a fancy—that
occasionally , and for brief intervals , his faculties quite failed
him , that his mind broke down . Ho was engaged at this time with a
treatise on tho Testimony of the Hocks , tipon which he was putting
out all hia strength , -working at his topmost pitch of intensity .
That volume will in a few weeks he in tho hands of many of our readers
; andwhile they peruse it with the saddened impression that tho
intellect nml genius of tho author poured out their latest treasures
in its compositionthoy will search through it in vain for tho
slightest evidence of feebleness or decaying powor . Rather let us
anticipate tho general verdict tbat will be pronounced upon it , and
speak of it as one of tlie ablest of all his writings . But ho wrought
at it too cngorly . Hours after midnight , the light was seen to
glimmer througb tho window of that room which within iao same eventful
week was to witness tho close ^ the volume and tho closft of the
writers life , ' . rnia overworking of tho brnin began to tell u" **
1 * 3 ' fl nientftl hcnUh . Ho had always been somenrl » at moodily
apprehensive of being attacked by footpads , and hu < l oarricd loaded
firearms about J' * 8 person . Latterly , having occasion sometimes to
return to Portobello from Edinburgh » t unseasonable hours , lie had
furnished himself with it revolver . Uut now , to all his old feara as
to attacks upoa bis person , there -was added an exciting and
over-mastering impression that his house , and . especially : that
museum , the fruit of so much care , which - was contained in a
separate outer building , were exposed to the assault of burglars . He
read all the recent stories of house robberies . He believed that ;
one night lately an actual attempt to break in upon his museorn had
been , made . Visions of ticket-of-lea-ve men pro-wling about his
premises haunted him by day and by night . The revolver which lay
nightly near him was not enough : a broad-bladed dagger was kept
beside it , while behind him , at his bed-head , a claymore stood
ready at hand . A week or so ago , a new and more aggravated feature
of cerebral disorder showed itself in sudden au < l singular "r * 8
ations in his head . Tliey came on only after lengthened intervals .
They did not last long , but were intensely violent . The terrible
idea that his brain was deeply and hopelessly diseased , that his mind
was on the verge of rain , took hold of him , and stood put before his
eye in all that appalling magnitude in which such an imagination as
his alone could picture it . " It was not until Monday -week that he
mentioned anything about these head disturbances- He then called on Dr
. Balfour at Portobello . " On my asking , " says that gentleman , in
a communication to the Witness , " what tv-as the matter with him , he
replied : — 'My brain is giving way . I cannot put two thoughts
together to-day . I have had a dreadful night of it . I cannot face
another such . I was impressed with the idea that my museum was
attacked by robbers , and that I had got up , put on my clothes , and
gone out with a loaded pistol to shoot tliem . Immediately after that
I became "unconscious . How long that continued I cannot sayj . but
when la-woke in the morning I was trembling all over , and quite
confused in my brain . So thoroughly convinced was I that I must have
been out through the night , that I examined my trousers * to see if
they were-wet or covered with mud , but could find none . '" The next
day , a consultation was held between Dr . 33 alfour and Professor
toiler ( a relaitou we ^ presume ) , the result of which the latter
thus communicates :- — " ~ Vv * e examined his chest , and found
that unusually ¦ w ell ; but soon we discovered that it was head
symptoms that made him uneasy . ' He acknowledged having beea night
after night up till very late in the morning , working hard and
continuously at his new took , ' which , ' with much satisfaction , he
said , ' I have finished this day . ' He was sensible that his head
had suffered in consequence , as evidenced in two ways—first ,
occasionally he felt as if a A r ery fine poniard had been suddenly
passed through and through his brain . The pain was intense , and
momentarily followed by confusion and giddiness , and the sense of
being ; very drunk , ' unable to stand or walk . He thought that a
period of unconsciousness must have followed this , —a Idnd of swoon
, but he had never fallen . Second , what annoyed him most , however ,
was a kind of nightmare , which for some nights , past had rendered
sleep most 1 miserable . It was no dream , he said ; he saw no
distinct vision , and could remember nothing of what had passed
accurately . It was a sense of vague and yet intense horror , with a
conviction of being abroad in the night wind , and dragged through
places as if by some invisible power . ' Last night , ' he said , 'I
felt as if I had been ridden by a witch for fifty miles , and rose far
more wearied in inind and body than when I lay down . ' Suffice it to
say , " adds Professor Miller , " that we came to the conclusion that
he Avas suffering from an over-worked , mind , disordering his
digestive organs , enervating- his whole frame , and threatening
serious head nflectiou . We told him thip , and enjoined absolute
discontinuance of all worlc—bed at eleven , light supper ( lie hail
all his life made that a principal meal ) , thinning the hair of the
head , a warm sponging-bath at bed time , & c . To all our com mands
he readily promised obedience . For fully an hour we talked together
on these and other subjects , and 1 ^ left him with no apprehension of
impending evil , and little doubting but that a short timo of rest and
regimen would restore him to his wonted vigour . " Shortly afterwards
, the servant-girl entered the dining-room , to lay the table , when"
Sho found Mr . Miller in the room alono . Another of the paroxysms was
on him . Ilia face was such a picture of horror that sho hhrank in
terror from the sight . He flung himself on the sofa aii < l buried
liia head , as if in agony , upon the cushion . Again , howovcr , the
vision flitted by , and loft him in perfect health . Tlio evening was
spent quietly with his family . During tea ho employed himself in
reading aloud ( Jowper ' s ' Castnway , ' the ' Sonnet on Mary Unwin ,
' ruul ono of liia more playful pieces , for the special pleasure of
liia children . Having corrected nonio proofs of the forth-• trcauig
volume he went up stair . s to his study . At tho ¦ ppoii . ted hour
he had taken the bath , hut unfortunately liis nntunl and poculiar
ropugnanco to pliyaie had in-Raced him to loavo untakon tho medicine
tlmt had been proscribed . Ho had retired into Inn aleoping-room a anc
all apartment opening out of his study ,, and which for aotiio time-
past , in coiiHidurqlion of ( ho delicate stnto of Ma wile ' fi health
and tho irregularity of his own hours of Btudy , ho occupied at ni ^
ht alone—and laid some tiaao upon tho bed . The horrible trance ,
more horrible than ever , must have retained . All that can now be
known of what followed is to- be gathered fr om the facts , that next
morning his body , half-dressed , "was found lying lifel « 39 on the
floor , the feet upon the study rug , the chest pierced with the ball
cf the revolver pistok which was found lying- in the bath that stood
close by . The bullet had perforated the left lung , grazed the heart
, cut through the pulmonary artery at its root , and lodged in the rib
in the right side . Death must have been instantaneous . " The
following lines addressed to his wife were found lying on the table
beside the corpse : — " Dearest Lydia , —lly brain burns . I must
have walked ; and a fearful dream arises upon me . I cannot bear the
horrible thought . God and Father of the Lord Jesus Christ have mercy
upon me . Dearest Lydia , dear children , farewell . My brain burns as
the recollection grows . My dear , dear wife , farewell . " Hugh
Hiixer . " A post mortem examination of the body was made by Professor
Miller and other medical gentlemen , who found the brain greatly di &
eased , and they therefore signed a document stating their conviction
" that the act was suicidal , under the impulse of insanity . "
Another tragedy has arisen out of this lamentable event"We find it
thus related—. : vi vn v * I m . \ */ . U . AAV * . IV VJLl LAO X
dCVLv ^ VL m' ™ " After the judicial and medical inquiry on Friday (
the 26 tb ult . ) , Professor Miller took the pistol to the gunsmith
from which it had been purchased by Mr . Miller in July , 1855 , in
order to ascertain how many shots had been fired and-how many were
still in the chamber . In the master ' s absence , the foreman ,
Thomas Leslie , an old and experienced workman , received the pistol
from . Professor Miller , and unfortunately , instead of taking off
the chamber , looked into the muzzle , holding the hammer with his
fingers while he turned the chamber round to count the charges . The
hammer slipped from his fingers , struck the cap , and the charge in
the barrel exploded . Professor Miller , still standing outside the
counter , exclaimed , ' That ' s a narrow escape ! ' but unhappily it
was not so , for , as tbe smoke cleared away , he saw the poor man ' s
head gradually droop , and his body fall lifeless on the floor . The
charge bad entered bis right eva and nene-. . was a . steady ,
trustworthy man , and had been twenty-five years in his present
employment . He has left a widow and a familv of eight chddren . The
funeral of Mr . Miller took place on Tuesday , in the midst of an
unusually large concourse . of spectators . The shops along the route
irere for the most part closed , at the request of the jmxgistrates ;
and very great respect was shown to the memory of the deceased
geologist and pressman .
